---

title: Method and system for live collaborative tagging of audio conferences
abstract: The tags, according to some illustrative embodiments of the present invention, can be associated in a variety of ways, including but not limited to: a tag that is associated with an instance in time of the recording of the communication session; a tag that is associated with the recording as a whole; a tag that is associated with a period of time of the recording of the communication session, wherein the period of time is of a predetermined duration; a tag that is associated with a period of time of the recording of the communication session, wherein the period of time is under the control of the person contributing the tag. The tags are searchable and browsable and can be classified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08391455&OS=08391455&RS=08391455
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08391455
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100618
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 314 738 filed on 17 Mar. 2010 entitled Method and System for Live Collaborative Tagging of Audio Conferences. . The concepts but not necessarily the nomenclature of this provisional application are incorporated by reference herein.

If there are any contradictions or inconsistencies between this application and one or more of the cases that have been incorporated by reference the claims in the present case should be interpreted to be consistent with the language in this case.

The present invention relates to telecommunications in general and more particularly teleconferencing.

Communication sessions among several people are a commonplace form of communication today. Such communication sessions are sometimes known as conference calls teleconferences multi party calls meet me conferences audio conferences etc. Communication sessions can take many forms such as audio video or multi media. Likewise any number of people can attend a communication session such as a lecture or a presentation. Likewise any number of people can listen to a radio broadcast or view a television broadcast. For simplicity the present disclosure will hereinafter refer to any or all of the foregoing terms as a communication session regardless of the form of the communication session the medium of the communication session and what technology interconnects the people on the communication session. Thus an audio conference is a communication session.

A communication session with many participants can pose difficulties. Advances in technology have made it possible for almost any number of people to participate in a communication session. However participants can face barriers in being able to follow and understand the proceedings or to actively take part.

One well known way to better follow and understand what happened in any communication session is to record it for later consumption. For example after the communication session is over and the recording of it is available an employee can add to the recording a set of index notes or commentary to help a listener navigate the material. In another exemplary scenario a student attending a lecture annotates a recording of the lecture in real time by adding digital notes or photographs when the lecturer makes a point that is of interest to the student. When listening to the recording at a later time the student can view the digital notes and photographs at the appropriate time because they are time aligned with the lecture. Additionally the prior art includes electronic note taking devices that capture a listener s notes during a lecture or meeting. These are useful note taking tools.

Other well known techniques in the art include instant messaging in which messages are exchanged in a medium that is distinct from the principal communication session. Likewise Twitter enables participants to transmit comments to others in a broadcast setting while the principal communication session is taking place. Instant messaging and Twitter typically occur in parallel with the communication session for example during a presentation or trade show. In this way commentary and review can reach a potentially wide audience.

The prior art also includes creating a transcript of a communication session. Some products offer searching of a recorded clip for a spoken word. Tagging on the World Wide Web is used for categorization or labeling of content such as tagging a web site or tagging a video clip. Tagging is useful for adding information after the fact i.e. after the content has been created. In sum traditional approaches are directed at commentary or personal note taking approaches that fall outside the content creation or content communication scope of the principal communication session.

Businesses have different needs and priorities than traditional note taking tagging or broadcast commentary that are available in the prior art. The inventors of the present invention recognized that a key distinction for a business communication session is the need to increase the communicative content of the proceedings through a live and collaborative approach that adds value to but does not disrupt the proceedings. Moreover the inventors recognized that increasing the communicative content may mean modifying or directing the content itself to satisfy the purposes of the communication session. Of course it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that the present invention is not limited to business settings.

In accordance with some illustrative embodiments of the present invention participants on a communication session contribute tags during the course of the communication session such that the tags are visible as the communication session progresses to some if not all of the participants. This creates a live collaborative tagging environment. Moreover the tags can be edited rated searched browsed and used during and after the communication session. The live collaborative environment not only enhances the communicative content of the communication session but has the potential of changing the content of the communication session by giving speakers and listeners the opportunity to contribute and to use tags as they are created throughout the course of the communication session. This approach departs from traditional after the fact or note taking techniques in the prior art.

For purposes of this disclosure the noun tag is defined as a remark that is associated with all or part of a recording. For purposes of this disclosure a remark comprises at least one word that is supplied by a person when tagging though it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that a remark can comprise a medium other than words such as audio images video or other media or a combination of media.

According to some illustrative embodiments of the present invention the communication session is recorded. Tags are contributed by some or all the participants on the communication session. The tags are displayed as they are generated. Moreover a person who declines to speak on the communication session can still actively contribute tags. In this way a tagger can participate and contribute in a collaborative live manner while the communication session is in progress. Moreover largely under the control of the user the tags are associated with all or parts of the recording which enhances the communicative content of the communication session. Thus the live collaborative tagging takes on an interactive character that is consistent with the objectives of the communication session.

The tags according to some illustrative embodiments of the present invention can be associated in a variety of ways including but not limited to a tag that is associated with an instance in time of the recording of the communication session a tag that is associated with the recording as a whole a tag that is associated with a period of time of the recording wherein the period of time is of a predetermined duration a tag that is associated with a period of time of the recording wherein the period of time is under the control of the person contributing the tag. The tags are searchable and browsable and can be edited and classified. In contrast to prior art that has no notion of association with a user selected period of time the present invention enables a user to exercise substantial control over the manner in which the user s remarks become associated with all or portions of the communication session.

During and after the communication session the recording of the communication session portions of the recording the tags and the associated information are available for subsequent use. A user can access the recording the tags and the associated portions of the recording. A user can add more tags. A user can also search for example by finding all tags contributed by a certain person. A user can also search for example by tag type or by other classifications. Unlike the prior art the present invention enables users i to tag live during the course of the communication session ii by enabling both producers and consumers of the communication session to contribute tags thus iii possibly resulting in a change of the content or communication being produced in the communication session. For example a speaker may observe a newly contributed tag and as a result provide additional information to the audience. For example a speaker might say I see that someone had a question about my discussion of topic X let me answer it. This is possible when remarks that seemed to ask a question were in tag that relates to the first ten minutes of the discussion of topic X because the tag was associated with that portion of the conversation. In another example a listener reading a tag realizes that there is confusion about the content and as a result asks a question to the speaker to clarify the subject matter or edits an earlier tag. In this way the collaborative nature of the interaction means that tags contributed earlier in the communication session may influence the tags that are contributed later or the content of the communication session or both.

For the purposes of this disclosure different types of tag are defined herein. Generally the tag type reflects a temporal aspect of the tag as described in more detail below.

An instant tag is a tag that is associated with an instant of time in the recording. For example an instant tag might be useful for flagging the start of a new topic.

An offset time is defined herein as an interval of time that sets an instant of time earlier than the actual time when the remark was submitted to the tagging system. The offset time accounts for the period of delay between the time a user hears something of interest and the time s he submits the remark for the tag. For example an offset time of five seconds might elapse before the user contributes an instant tag consequently with the offset time the instant tag is associated with a point in time five seconds before the user actually submitted the remark.

A deep tag is a tag that is associated with a portion or a segment of the recording such that the duration of the tagged portion is under the control of the activating user. Like an instant tag a deep tag can have an offset time. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a deep tag is associated with a portion of the recording that has a predetermined duration based on the user s activation of the tag for example a fixed duration of one minute of the recording.

A whole tag is a tag that is associated with the entire recording of the communication session regardless of the time when the whole tag is activated.

Some illustrative embodiments comprise a method comprising generating by a data processing system a first tag that comprises a first remark from a first user transmitting by the data processing system a first signal to display the first tag to i a first terminal that is associated with the first user and ii a second terminal that is associated with a second user wherein a recording comprises the audio output of a communication session between the first user and the second user and transmitting by the data processing system a second signal to display a second tag to i the first terminal and ii the second terminal wherein the second tag comprises a second remark from a party wherein the party is at least one of the first user and the second user wherein the generating and the transmitting operations i occur during the course of the communication session ii are independent of whether the first user speaks or listens on the communication session and iii are independent of whether the second user speaks or listens on the communication session.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises three telecommunications terminals and it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that comprise any number of telecommunications terminals e.g. two telecommunications terminals four telecommunications terminals five telecommunications terminals etc.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises one telecommunications network it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that comprise any number of telecommunications networks e.g. two telecommunications networks three telecommunications networks etc.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises one media server it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that comprise no media server or any number of media servers e.g. two media servers three media servers etc. For example a communication session among users who are together in the same room requires no media server.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises one tagging system it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that comprise any number of tagging systems e.g. two tagging systems three tagging systems etc.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises one recording device it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make an use alternative embodiments that comprise any number of recording devices e.g. two recording devices three recording devices etc.

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises three users i.e. user user and user it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that support any number of users e.g. four users five users etc.

Although the illustrative embodiment depicts the salient components of telecommunications system connected as shown in it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure that one or more of these components can be directly connected to one or more of the other components. For example media server can be directly connected to telecommunications terminal or to tagging system .

Although the illustrative embodiment depicts the salient components of telecommunications system connected as shown in it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure that one or more of these components can be connected to one or more of the other components via one or more networks. Thus for example telecommunications terminal can be connected to tagging system via telecommunications network or via another network. For example media server can be connected to tagging system via telecommunications network or via another network.

Although the illustrative embodiment depicts the salient components of telecommunications system as being separate from one another it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that a single physical device can comprise one or more of the depicted components. Thus for example a single physical device can comprise media server and tagging system . Likewise one of the components of telecommunications system can comprise one or more of the other depicted components. For example media server can be subsumed into telecommunications network by a network bridge. For example telecommunications terminal can comprise media server by acting as the conference bridge for a communication session. For example tagging system can comprise recording device . Likewise media server can comprise recording device .

Although the illustrative embodiment depicts every user of telecommunications system as having the capability to both speak and listen on the communication session that is being tagged it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that a user of tagging system who is on the communication session that is being tagged need not speak and need not listen during the course of the communication session. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that a user of tagging system need not have a connection to the communication session that would enable the user to speak on the communication session. In other words user n can listen to the communication session and still be actively tagging during the course of the communication session.

Telecommunications terminal is well known prior art hardware that is a personal computer and a two way speakerphone that is coupled to the personal computer wherein n 1 2 or 3 such that telecommunications terminal enables its user during the course of the communication session to speak on the communication session listen on the communication session and use tagging system in any order or concurrently without limitation. Thus telecommunications terminal in accordance with the illustrative embodiment enables user n to participate in the communication session that is being tagged and to concurrently use tagging system during the course of the communication session.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention in which telecommunications terminal can be any personal computer platform a computer terminal a soft phone application running on a computer a personal digital assistant a Blackberry an IPhone etc.

It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention in which a separate device enables a user to participate in the communication session while telecommunications terminal enables the use of tagging system during the course of the communication session. For example the separate device can be a wireline telephone or a wireless telephone for participating on the communication session while telecommunications terminal is a personal computer logged into tagging system . In other words participating on the communication session that is being tagged and accessing tagging system can be done by a user via separate devices.

Media server is an apparatus well known in the prior art that supports a communication session among a plurality of users. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art that a media server is sometimes known in the art as or comprises a meet me bridge or a conference bridge or a multi party bridge or a teleconferencing system or a conferencing system or an audio conference bridge or a video conferencing system or other like terms. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which media server supports a broadcast. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which another component of telecommunications system comprises media server .

Tagging system is a data processing system according to some illustrative embodiments of the present invention whose capabilities are described below and in the accompanying figures.

Tagging system receives transmits and processes information. Tagging system enables a first plurality of users in any order and with any frequency without limitation during the course of a communication session to engage in tagging of the communication session viewing the tags of communication session participants viewing analyses associated with the tagging of the communication session annotating existing tags rating existing tags deleting tags editing the start and stop times of tags etc. During and after the communication session tagging system enables a second plurality of users in any order and with any frequency without limitation to engage in browsing searching retrieving and listening to recording s or portions of recording s of a communication session that has been tagged by the second plurality of users or by other users viewing the tags of communication session participants viewing analyses associated with the tagging of the communication session annotating existing tags rating existing tags deleting tags editing the start and stop times of tags etc. These and other capabilities of tagging system are described in more detail below and in the accompanying figures.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which some of the operations described herein in regards to tagging system are performed by another component of telecommunications system . For example a tag could be generated by telecommunications terminal and transmitted to tagging system .

Recording device is an apparatus well known in the prior art that records the proceedings of a communications session and produces a recording that is in a formal well known in the art. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments that operate without a recording device and without a recording of the entire communication session. Although in some illustrative embodiments the recording is an audio recording of the communication session it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the recording is in another medium such as a video recording. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the recording is a representation of the communication session wherein the representation comprises meta data such as a start time and an end time and other main events of the communication session such that the recording retains its capacity to be associated in whole or in part with remarks to form tags.

A participant in a communication session is a user of tagging system when s he performs any of the foregoing activities with respect to tagging system . In addition a user of tagging system need not be a participant on a communication session to use tagging system . Gaining access browsing searching retrieving or listening to recording s on tagging system are independent of whether the user is presently on or previously participated in a communication session. The set of participants on a communication session need not be identical to the set of users of tagging system . For example a user can create tags during a communication session regardless of whether the user has the ability to speak on the communication session. For example a user can listen to the communication session via a one way streaming feed and all the while actively engage in tagging the communication session. For example another user who did not participate in the communication session at all can later browse and search tags and listen to the associated portions of the recording of the communication session.

The details of telecommunications system are further described below. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use telecommunications system .

At task a communication session is recorded and tagged. Task is described in further detail below and in the accompanying figures.

At task information associated with a tagged communication session is retrieved. Task is described in further detail below and in the accompanying figures.

In the illustrative embodiment task occurs after a communication session has been completed but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which task occurs concurrently with the communication session. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which task occurs concurrently with the recording and tagging of another communication session.

Although the illustrative embodiment of telecommunications system comprises only two tasks it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention that has any number of tasks or sub divisions of tasks e.g. one task comprising both task and task two tasks that are differently sub divided three tasks four tasks etc. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention with multiple instances of either task or task or both. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments of the present invention in which the constituent tasks of tasks and are organized differently or are executed in a different sequence.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use task and task and their constituent tasks.

At task a communication session is established among a number of users in a manner well known in the art. In the illustrative embodiment three users user user and user join a conference call via media server . It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which any number of users can participate in the communication session. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the users are connected with each other in a different manner.

Although the communication session in the illustrative embodiment is an audio conference call it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the communication session is a video communication session or comprises another medium.

At task tagging system connects to the communication session and to recording device such that recording device is capable of making a recording of the communication session. Although in the illustrative embodiment tagging system connects to the communication session via media server it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which tagging system connects to the communication session in a different way.

Although in the illustrative embodiment users log in to tagging system via telecommunications terminal it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which participants who have joined the communication session are automatically given access to tagging system .

Although the illustrative embodiment comprises a scenario in which every communication session participant is also a user of tagging system during the course of the communication session it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the set of communication session participants and the set of users of tagging system are not identical sets. However in the preferred embodiment every communication session participant has the capability of concurrently using tagging system .

At task tagging related operations occur during the course of the communication session. Task is described in more detail below and in the accompanying figures.

At task the tagging of the communication session and the communication session itself are brought to an end in a manner well known in the art.

At task recording device records the communication session to generate a recording of the communication session in a format well known in the art. Recording device transmits the recording to tagging system in a manner well known in the art.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which tagging system is the system component that performs the recording operation. Likewise in some alternative embodiments media server could make the recording and transmit it to tagging system .

At task once the communication session is in progress tagging system presents users with prompts for tagging the communication session via telecommunications terminal . A user selects a type of tag and supplies a remark to create a tag. which are discussed in more detail below provide illustrative embodiments of the prompts that are presented. For the purposes of this disclosure three types of tag have been defined above. Additional aspects of the tags are described in more detail below and in the accompanying figures.

In the illustrative embodiment an instant tag is created with a single click by pressing a screen button but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which an instant tag is created differently.

In the illustrative embodiment a deep tag requires two clicks a first click when the user s remark is submitted and a second click that indicates completion of the deep tag. For example when the user hears the speaker introduce the topic of acquisition the user submits the remark acquisition and clicks start deep tag when the topic ends the user clicks apply deep tag and the portion of the recording between the first click and the second click becomes associated with this deep tag. Like an instant tag a deep tag can have an offset time that sets the start time of the deep tag to an earlier instant of time.

In some cases after the deep tag was started the user decides that the remarks supplied for the deep tag are not useful. Instead of clicking apply deep tag the user clicks abort deep tag which causes tagging system to discard the information gathered so far and to scuttle the tag. No tag is created when the user clicks abort deep tag. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a deep tag is created or discarded differently.

It should be noted that instant tags can be added by a user after the user has started a deep tag but before clicking apply deep tag. This creates a nesting effect. The deep tag retains the span of time between start and apply and the instant tags are independent of the deep tag s parameters. Furthermore a user can start multiple deep tags resulting in nested or overlapping deep tags.

It should be further noted that one user s deep tag is independent of another user s deep tag such that the respective start and apply times can overlap without affecting each other.

In the illustrative embodiment a whole tag is created with a single click by pressing a screen button but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a whole tag is created differently. Because it is associated with the entire recording of the communication session regardless of the time of activation a whole tag might be useful for tagging the speakers on a communication session without regard to when they speak.

It should be noted that whole tags can be added by a user after the user has started a deep tag but before clicking apply deep tag. The deep tag retains the span of time between start and apply independently of the timing of the whole tags.

Although the illustrative embodiments create associations between a tag and all or parts of the recording it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make an use alternative embodiments in which the tags themselves or tag pointers become embedded into a data structure that comprises both the recording and the tags.

At task tags and analysis pertaining to the tagging of the communication session are generated. In the illustrative embodiment tagging system generates the tags and the analysis. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the tag is generated elsewhere in telecommunications system and transmitted to tagging system . It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the analysis is generated in whole or in part in another component of telecommunications system and transmitted to tagging system .

At task throughout the course of the communication session tagging system enables all its users to view i the tags that are being generated on the communication session and ii relevant analysis. which are discussed in more detail below provide illustrative embodiments of the displays that are presented to users in the course of the communication session while tagging of the communication session is on going.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a user can restrict the visibility of a tag by marking it private so that others cannot concurrently or subsequently view the tag. The implementation of a private public visibility scheme or some other more granular approach to tag privacy is at the discretion of the implementers of a system in accordance with the present invention.

At task tagging system stores the recording of the communication session the tags that were generated the data associated with the tags and all or part of the analysis in a searchable and browsable format for subsequent retrieval. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which tagging system does not store this information and instead transmits it to another component of telecommunications system for storage.

Block is where a user enters a remark for the tag. A user s remark may comprise any number of words. After entering the remark the user selects one of the available types of tag as explained next.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that provides an illustration only and that alternative embodiments will be differently arranged activated or labeled. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments that comprise privacy settings or other settings for tags.

The user who is presented with block may enter in block an additional remark for the deep tag in progress. The user completes the deep tag in progress by selecting screen button i.e. apply deep tag. The user discards the deep tag in progress by selecting screen button i.e. abort deep tag. The user adds an instant tag by selecting screen button .

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that provides an illustration only and that alternative embodiments will be differently arranged activated or labeled. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments that comprise privacy settings or other settings for tags.

As noted present illustrative displays that one having ordinary skill in the art can re arrange into other configurations best suited to the purposes of the implementers of the system in accordance with the present invention.

At task tagging system receives from a first user at time Ta remark that is accompanied by a type of tag. As illustrated in a first user can select an instant tag or a whole tag or can start a deep tag.

At task tagging system generates a tag based on the type of tag selected by the first user. Task is described in more detail below and in the accompanying figures.

At task tagging system associates the tag generated in task with the identity of the first user i.e. with the user who supplied the remark to create the tag. This association can be subsequently exploited for analysis and for browsing and searching and possibly for classification of tags.

At task tagging system calculates and updates the analysis that arises out of the on going tagging activity on the communication session. For example as shown in the illustrative display of tagging system presents an analysis block of the communication session that provides analytical information about the communication session.

It should be noted that in the illustrative embodiment the information that the analysis comprises is based on the tagging activity of the communication session in progress but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the analysis comprises information about other communication sessions or other information of the implementers choosing such as images of the speakers etc.

At task foregoing tasks through repeat for another tag which is initiated during the course of the communication session by the same first user or by another user via tagging system . Moreover it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that the tasks illustrated in the present figure support the generation of any number of tags concurrently or sequentially from one or more users of tagging system during the course of the communication session without limitation.

It should be noted that substantially concurrently with the foregoing tasks in the present figure task displays tags and analysis to at least some of the users of tagging system throughout the course of the communication session.

At task when the user of tagging system selects add deep tag meaning that the type of tag the user wishes to contribute is a deep tag tagging system sets the start time of the deep tag T. Thus Tis the time that the user made the selection Tminus an offset time if any. For example if a user selects add deep tag at 11 05 22 a.m. and the offset time is ten seconds tagging system sets the start time of the deep tag Tto be 11 05 12 a.m. In the illustrative embodiment the offset time has a value that the user can set via a pull down menu as shown in . It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the offset time has a fixed system wide value or is not used at all.

Task is a decision point that depends on whether add deep tag is followed by an apply or by an abort selection by the user. When the user selects apply deep tag control passes to task . When the user selects abort deep tag control passes to task .

At task a deep tag that was started is followed by an abort deep tag selection. Accordingly tagging system discards the information gathered so far in regards to the present deep tag and does not generate the deep tag.

At task a deep tag that was started is followed by an apply deep tag selection. Accordingly tagging system defines a first portion of the recording wherein the first portion begins at time Tand ends when apply deep tag is selected.

At task tagging system generates a tag. The tag comprises the remark supplied by the user and is associated with the first portion of the recording. It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a deep tag is associated with a portion of the recording wherein the portion begins at time Tand ends after a predetermined interval of time.

At task when the user of tagging system selects add instant tag meaning that the type of tag the user wishes to contribute is an instant tag tagging system sets the start time of the instant tag Tin the manner described for task . Tagging system generates a tag. The tag comprises the remark supplied by the user and is associated with time T.

At task when the user of tagging system selects add whole tag meaning that the type of tag the user wishes to create is a whole tag tagging system generates a tag. The tag comprises the remark supplied by the user and is associated with the recording as a whole.

As noted the methods of live collaborative tagging described herein enable displaying to the participants on a communication session the tags that are being contributed throughout the course of the communication session. The participants can add more tags or perform other operations. The display is illustrated in block .

Block comprises a list of recently generated tags through . Block is sometimes referred to herein as the tag cloud. It should be noted that the illustrative tag cloud comprises a plurality of tags some of which were contributed by the same user. The tags in the illustrative tag cloud are displayed as they are generated but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the tag cloud presents the tags differently.

Tag is an example of a tag generated during the course of a communication session. The tag comprises the remark supplied by the user whose identity appears in parentheses. For example Ajita s remark Growth vs cost and cash is illustrated in tag . The underscore marks are illustrative only. In some illustrative embodiments the size of the tag is depicted proportionally to the number of times the tag has been created with the same or similar remarks and the number of users is appended to the tag when only one user has contributed the tag the user s identity appears in parentheses. In some illustrative embodiments tags are color coded according to the identity of the user who contributed the tag. In some illustrative embodiments the size of a tag correlates to the ratings it has received.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which the recently generated tags are presented in a different format. It will be further clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which a different number of recently generated tags is presented or in which the identity of a tag s creator is differently presented or is obscured or in which additional information is presented when a user selects or scrolls over a tag in the tag cloud.

Block is identical to the one illustrated in but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which users of tagging system are presented with the prompts for creating new tags in a different format than illustrated here.

As noted the methods of live collaborative tagging described herein enable displaying to the participants on a communication session the tags that are being created throughout the course of the communication session. The participants can add more tags or perform other operations. This is illustrated in block .

Items and are identical to those illustrated in but it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which users of tagging system are presented with a different format than the one illustrated here while retaining the ability to view edit and create tags during the course of the communication session.

Block illustrates an embodiment of how an analysis arising from the tagging of the communication session is presented to users during the course of the communication session. Block represents an analysis block comprising analytical information about the communication session.

It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments in which analytical information is differently formatted in which other information about the communication session and about the tags is presented in block in which information about the communication session and about the tags is presented differently in relation to the information in blocks and . It will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that the manner of presenting the tags and the analysis is largely up to the implementers of a system in accordance with the present invention. As noted present illustrative displays that one having ordinary skill in the art can re arrange into other configurations.

At task telecommunications terminal receives a user s selection of a communication session from among the communication sessions that are available from tagging system . Tagging system can store and retrieve information about any number of communication sessions.

At task in response to the user s selection tagging system retrieves the recording of the communication session and the tags that are associated with the communication session and other data that is associated with the communication session. An example of other data is an analysis of the communication session analogous to the information displayed in block .

At task tagging system transmits to telecommunications terminal the plurality of tags that are associated with the communication session.

At task telecommunications terminal receives the user s selection of a whole tag from among the plurality of tags.

At task in response to the user s selection of a whole tag tagging system transmits the entire recording to telecommunications terminal because a whole tag is associated with the recording as a whole.

At task telecommunications terminal outputs to the user the entire recording and displays the plurality of tags to enable the user to make a further selection.

At task telecommunications terminal receives a user s selection of another tag a deep tag from among the plurality of tags.

At task in response to the user s selection of a deep tag tagging system retrieves the portion of the recording that is associated with the selected deep tag and transmits it to telecommunications terminal 

At task telecommunications terminal outputs to the user the portion of the recording that is associated with the selected deep tag and displays the plurality of tags to enable a further selection by the user.

At task telecommunications terminal receives the user s selection of another tag an instant tag from among the plurality of tags.

At task in response to the user s selection of an instant tag tagging system retrieves the portion of the recording that follows the start time of the instant tag and transmits it to telecommunications terminal 

At task telecommunications terminal outputs to the user the portion of the recording and displays the plurality of tags to enable a further selection by the user.

At task telecommunications terminal receives the user s selection of the identity of a so called tagger a user who contributed at least one tag. The tagger s identity might be the user s own or someone else s. For example a user might want to view all the tags s he contributed. For example a user might want to view all the tags contributed by the person who convened the communication session.

Although the illustrative embodiment shows a search based on an identity it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure how to make and use alternative embodiments where the user searches based on other criteria such as tag topic tag timing type of tag duration of tag tag synonyms etc. The choice and extent of search criteria to be offered to a user at task and more generally at task is up to the implementers of a system in accordance with the present invention.

At task in response to the user s selection of the identity of a tagger tagging system retrieves all tags in the plurality of tags that are associated with the identity of the tagger and transmits them to telecommunications terminal . Although not shown in telecommunications terminal at task outputs the information received from tagging system and enables a further selection by the user.

Although it is not illustrated in it will be clear to those having ordinary skill in the art after reading the present disclosure that the searching and browsing process of task and its constituent tasks continues at the discretion of the user based on the presently selected communication session or based on another communication session available from tagging system in any order of the user s choosing without limitation.

It is to be understood that the disclosure teaches just some examples of illustrative embodiments and that many variations of the present invention can easily be devised by those skilled in the art after reading this disclosure and that the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the following claims.

