---

title: System for supporting robot hardware design and method thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to a system and a method for supporting robotic hardware design, and the method comprises: loading a template which has information on the mechanical structure, operating mechanism, power transmission and motion data of robot modules; modifying the information for use in a simulator for further designing the robot modules; analyzing the behavior of each robot module according to respective motion data; applying the resulting data to modify each robot module according to simulation API; and controlling the selection/combination of robot parts for simulator assembly according to API and the resulting templates, databases on which robot parts are required and databases for information on selection/combination of robot parts and assembly of each robot module. The above system and method provide an optimal way to design robot hardware and reduce the time required for robot hardware design.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015015&OS=09015015&RS=09015015
owner: Korea Institute of Industrial Technology
number: 09015015
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20101201
---
The present application is a National Phase Application of International Application No. PCT KR2010 008558 filed Dec. 1 2010 which claims the benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2009 0118255 filed Dec. 2 2009 which applications are incorporated herein fully by this reference.

The present invention relates to robot hardware design support and more particularly to a system and method for supporting robot hardware design which can reduce the time and cost of conceptual design and detailed design in the production of a robot when robot modules and platforms are built using common parts.

In general robots are classified into industrial medical space and submarine robots and applied in various fields. For example the industrial robots that repeat the same movements are used in the machining industry such as automobile production. In the medical field a prosthetic hand that drives a motor by myogenic potentials evoked by an armless person s intention i.e. a command from motor nerve is commercialized. In the field of space development remote control robots such as moon crawlers have been developed in the USA and Russia.

To design these robots it is necessary to establish a goal of developing a desired robot and determine general schematic specifications and structure. In a conceptual design phase a dynamic simulation is performed and then a detailed design phase is underway to draw up detailed specifications and select parts.

An example of a process to produce the robot is shown in . is a flowchart showing a conventional process of robot development.

As shown in a robot production plan that meets the development goals is established S and then a scenario is created S . After the above step S hardware is designed and produced S and at the same time a running program is produced S . Then the produced hardware is tested S and if a normal result is obtained the running program is mounted in the hardware S . After the running program is mounted in the hardware a test is performed to determine whether the robot normally operates S and if it is determined that the robot normally operates the current circuit design and mechanical design are determined as a model for mass production and a robot for mass production is prepared S .

The planning of the robot production the creation of the scenario etc. have fixed periods depending on the goals or requirements of robot development. The design production of the hardware the production of the running program etc. generally require a long time while there are some differences depending on the technical difficulties. In particular the conventional robot hardware is designed using a design tool such as CAD for example which requires specialized design techniques resulting in reduced accessibility. Moreover this design tool is not specialized for the robot design and thus it is difficult to professionally design the robot only. Furthermore there is a lack of standard parts systematic performance test data etc. for the robot development and thus it is also difficult to optimally design the robot using various parts.

Accordingly the present invention has been made to solve the above described problems associated with prior art. An object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for supporting robot hardware design which can easily design robot hardware by providing a template having various structures mechanisms and power transmission systems of respective modules such as a mobile module an arm module a head module etc. that constitute the robot.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for supporting robot hardware design which can optimally design a robot by determining the specifications of each robot joint through analysis determining the specification of parts that meet the requirements and selecting parts.

According to a system for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention to achieve the above objects the system comprises a template which contains information on the mechanical structure operating mechanism power transmission system and motion data of a robot module to be used by a simulator for designing the robot module a simulator application programming interface API which loads the template modifies the information analyzes the movements of the robot module based on the motion data and utilizes result data required for each joint of the robot module a part database which contains information on parts required for the production of the robot module based on the analysis results of the simulator a part selection combination unit which selects and combines parts required for the production of the robot module from the part database and a control unit which controls the simulator the template the simulator API the part database and the part selection combination unit.

According to the system for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system further comprises a database input unit which updates the information on the parts required for the production of the robot module.

According to the system for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the robot module comprises at least module selected from the group consisting of a mobile module an arm module and a head module.

According to the system for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the result data comprises torque and speed required for each joint of the mobile module the arm module and the head module.

According to a method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention to achieve the above objects the method comprises i a step of driving a simulator for designing a robot module ii a conceptual design step of recommending the structure and mechanism of each of robot modules including a mobile module an arm module and a head module providing motion data of the recommended robot module and determining the specifications of parts applied to the robot module and iii a detailed design step of providing parts that meet the specifications of the parts determined in step ii and selecting a combination of the provided parts.

According to the method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the above step ii comprises iv a step of selecting at least one from the robot modules including the mobile module the arm module and the head module v a step of providing a template containing information on the mechanical structure operating mechanism power transmission system and motion data of the selected at least one robot module to be used by the simulator and vi a step of determining the specifications of the selected at least one robot module from the template.

According to the method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the above step iii comprises vii a step of determining whether the specifications of the selected at least one robot module are suitable for the design of a robot module to be produced and viii a step of selecting parts corresponding to the determined specifications if it is determined that the specifications are suitable for the design in step vii .

According to the method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises if it is determined that the specifications of the selected at least one robot module are not suitable for the design of the robot module to be produced in step vii a step of determining again the specifications of the module from the template.

As described above according to the system and method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with the exemplary embodiments of the present invention it is possible to easily design the hardware of a robot by providing a template having various structures mechanisms and power transmission systems of respective modules including a mobile module an arm module a head module that constitute the robot.

Moreover according to the system and method for supporting robot hardware design in accordance with the exemplary embodiments of the present invention it is possible to optimally design the robot by determining the specifications of each robot joint through analysis determining the specification of parts that meet the requirements and selecting parts.

The above and other objects and novel characteristics of the present invention will be more apparent from the description of the present specification and the accompanying drawings. First the concept of the present invention will be described with reference to . is a diagram showing the concept of a robot hardware design support system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in order to design a robot a goal in accordance with the purpose and intended use should be established S . When the goal of developing the robot is established in the above step S general structure and specifications of the robot are determined as a conceptual design S . The general structure and specifications determined in the above step S are verified through dynamic simulation and reflected in the conceptual design. Then the specifications of parts are selected as a detailed design and a combination of parts is recommended S . The above step S is completed with modification through structural analysis.

In this case the conceptual design phase and the detailed design phase can be completed by the robot hardware design support system S . The design support system provides a template having various structures mechanisms and power transmission systems of respective modules including a mobile module an arm module a head module etc. in the conceptual design phase and determines the specifications of joints that constitute the module by analyzing the provided template. Moreover the design support system selects parts that can meet the specifications of each joint in the detailed design phase and determines a possible combination of the parts.

The operation of selecting and determining the parts uses parts from several manufacturers pre built in a product database and provides information on each of the parts selected from the manufacturers and evaluation results for the combination of the parts. For example when parts for an arm module are selected the design support system selects a specific manufacturer and a specific product with respect to each of motors decelerators sensors etc. used in the arm module and provides the evaluation results for the combination of the parts.

When the detailed design is completed by the design support system a post process is performed S . In the post process the parts of each robot module are processed and assembled and a running program is mounted in the assembled robot and subjected to a test phase. Data obtained in the test phase is reflected again in the conceptual design and the detailed design and when the specifications of each module suitable for achieving the goals are determined the robots are produced in mass production.

Next the configuration of the present invention will be described with reference to . In the description of the present invention the same elements are denoted by the same reference numerals and repeated description thereof will be omitted.

As shown in a robot hardware design support system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises a template configured in the form of data used by a simulator not shown that uses a predetermined or standard application programming interface API for the robot design a simulator API a part database a part selection combination unit a database input unit and a control unit .

The template is configured in the form of data used by the simulator and contains information on the mechanical structure mechanism power transmission system and motion data of the robot module. In this case the analysis performed on the simulator means the acquisition of various necessary dynamic data by virtually performing the main movements or extreme movements of the robot. Moreover the basic motion data for the analysis means movement samples such as position speed etc. at each joint over time. The movement samples may be simple trajectories in an open loop control system or may be trajectories calculated by the controller in a closed loop control system.

The template may be loaded in the simulator to change physical properties such as the size mass friction inertia moment etc. of each robot module. Moreover the template may provide various examples for achieving the respective target functions in a mobile function module an operation function module a recognition function module etc.

The simulator API loads and modifies the template allows the robot module to perform its movements based on the basic motion data and analyzes the performed movements thus utilizing result data such as torque speed etc. required for each joint. The part database contains information on basic specifications manufacturers simple evaluation results and combinable configurations of parts. Moreover the part database may update the information on the specifications of the parts online or offline and may be built on a web for sharing etc.

The part selection combination unit has an algorithm for combining the parts depending on various combination criteria such as size minimization cost minimization reliability etc. of a combined module. The database input unit may be connected to a part manufacturer or vendor so as to add or modify the information on the parts. Thus the part manufacture or vendor may update the information on the corresponding parts in the part database built online and the information is registered in the part database upon final approval by a database manager.

The control unit controls the simulator the template the simulator API the part database and the part selection combination unit to optimize the conceptual design and detailed design process of the robot thus reducing the development time of the robot hardware.

Next a robot hardware design support method in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to . is a flowchart showing an example of a robot hardware design support method in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention and is a diagram showing an example of robot design using the design support system in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in the robot hardware design support method in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention starts from a step of driving a simulator that uses a predetermined or standard API for the robot design S . The simulator may use other platforms well known in the art as well as the above described OPRoS.

After the above step S at least one is selected from the robot modules including a mobile module an arm module and a head module S and provides a template containing information on the mechanical structure operating mechanism power transmission system and motion data of each of the selected robot modules including the mobile module the arm module and the head module S . Moreover after the above step the specifications of at least one module selected by the template are determined S .

The conceptual design recommends the structure and mechanism of each of the robot modules including the mobile module the arm module and the head module that meet the detailed goals provides basic motion data of the recommended robot modules adjusts parameters of the provided templates into desired scales and determines the specifications of each joint through analysis. Moreover the detailed design provides parts that can meet the specifications of each joint determined in the conceptual design and recommends a combination of the provided parts.

Arm modules templates to of various shapes are provided in the template and template may be selected as a simple motion type arm module of human scale for the detailed goals in the conceptual design phase. Moreover the simulator API loads and modifies the selected template allows the corresponding module to perform its movements based on the basic motion data and analyzes the performed movements thus utilizing result data such as torque speed etc. required for each joint. The part database contains information on basic specifications manufacturers simple evaluation results and combinable configurations of the simple motion type arm module.

In the above step S parameters of template are adjusted into desired scales and when optimal specifications are determined through analysis it is determined whether the determined specifications of each module are suitable for the desired design module S . If it is determined that the specifications are suitable for the desired design module the parts corresponding to the determined specifications are combined and recommended S . For example as shown in motor P of company A decelerator Q of company B and sensor R of company C may be adopted to apply to template the simple motion type arm module of human scale in the detailed design phase. As a result when the robot hardware design support system in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention is applied to the conceptual design and detailed design of the robot it is possible to reduce the design time of the robot hardware by more than 25 and optimize the design of the robot hardware by utilizing the template the analysis and the part database.

If the specifications of each module determined in the above step S are not suitable for the desired design module the determination of the specifications of the module from the template is repeated. After the above step S a post process of drawing processing assembling testing and manufacturing is performed to produce a robot that meet the goals.

The invention has been described in detail with reference to preferred embodiments thereof. However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

