---

title: Method and system for transforming content for execution on multiple platforms
abstract: A method and system are disclosed for acquiring and transforming existing content (e.g., Hyper Text Markup Language HTML content) for display and execution on multiple platforms and architectures. In one embodiment, capture templates are created to harvest content from disparate content sources on multiple platforms. Data is extracted from the content from the disparate content sources using the created capture templates that drives extracting process. A standardized data stream is generated from the extracted data. The standardized data stream is provided for display on one or more different type of platforms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650480&OS=08650480&RS=08650480
owner: TVWorks, LLC
number: 08650480
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100903
---
The present application is a Continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 023 178 filed Dec. 22 2004 which is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 841 017 filed Apr. 23 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 995 entitled Method And System For Transforming Content For Execution On Multiple Platforms which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 199 686 filed on Apr. 24 2000. Each of the above identified applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to field of information and data processing. More particularly the present invention relates to content syndication and transformation for multiple platforms. Specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for designing and transforming content for execution on multiple platforms.

Syndication is a process of gathering information from a range of sources and repackaging the information for access and display at a destination. Syndication is popular with interactive television iTV environments. In an iTV environment a TV user can interact with a broadcast or service being provided on the TV. A well known iTV syndication service is WebTV. WebTV provides a service through a set top box such that a user can access content e.g. a web page on the Internet or World Wide Web via a remote controller and a browser operating on the TV.

Typically a web page includes Hyper Text Markup Language HTML tags and attributes for displaying text and images designed for a web browser on a personal computer. To display a web page for the TV however WebTV uses a transcode server that applies a simple generic or blind mapping of the HTML tags and attributes for the web page and targets it specifically for its own browser provided by its own set top box. Basically WebTV corrects elements of the web page for display on the TV. For example the WebTV transcode server will perform a simple mapping of an object e.g. changing the object size to fit on the TV.

Thus a disadvantage of using WebTV is that the generic mapping or blind transformation process does not account for certain drawbacks of displaying Internet content in the TV environment such as for example low resolution of graphics lack of support of several web languages and lack of support for a mouse navigation interface. Another disadvantage of Web TV is that it does not provide for multiple platform use. Instead WebTV can only be used with its own WebTV set top box. Furthermore WebTV does not allow for alteration or modification of content such that new look and feel content can be provided to the user. That is new media content cannot be inserted along with existing content for display.

Current syndication technologies which do enable the creation of HTML enhanced TV content require providers of the HTML content to re implement or re code the HTML content for use on different types of platforms. For example if HTML content on the Internet is to be provided to a wireless device e.g. a wireless telephone the HTML content must be re coded in a wireless markup language WML . Such a re coding process exacts a heavy burden on content providers to have their content accessible by different types of devices.

Current syndication technologies also do not provide a simple manner to navigate acquire and convert a given web page for a TV centric environment. Consequently existing technologies that convert content from one form to another require manual hard coding of the navigation acquisition and transformation process. That is each web page must be coded for the entire system and must be manually maintained and updated. Furthermore current syndication technologies are not designed to accommodate conversion of the content into new languages for different devices and content formats.

A method and system are disclosed for acquiring and transforming existing content e.g. Hyper Text Markup Language HTML content for display and execution on multiple platforms and architectures. In one embodiment capture templates are created to harvest content from disparate content sources on multiple platforms. Data is extracted from the content from the disparate content sources using the created capture templates that drives extracting process. A standardized data stream is generated from the extracted data. The standardized data stream is provided for display on one or more different type of platforms.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows below.

A method and system are described for acquiring and transforming existing content e.g. Hyper Text Markup Language HTML content for display and execution on multiple platforms and architectures. In one embodiment capture templates are created to harvest content from disparate content sources on multiple platforms. Data is extracted from the content from the disparate content sources using the created capture templates that drives extracting process. A standardized data stream is generated from the extracted data. The standardized data stream is provided for display on one or more different type of platforms.

By generating a standardized data stream from the capture templates content can be displayed on multiple types of platforms. The capture templates are platform neutral and allow content to be portable on or more different types of platforms. The capture templates are used to transform content for different types of devices. Thus by using such capture templates content does not have to be re coded for each specific type of device or platform.

In one embodiment a capture template is an Extensible Markup Language XML file or document that is created by extracting data from HTML content. The XML file allows for portability of data across multiple platform types. Because XML is extensible content can be defined in a number of ways for many different purposes. Thus new look and feel content can be created. In one embodiment a simple to use template authoring tool allows XML files to be created by selectively navigating and extracting data from HTML content. The template authoring tool enables a user to create XML files or documents without having to perform hard XML coding.

In the following embodiments a single platform can be used to acquire content in one format and to transform the content in a format suitable for any number of destination devices. Furthermore the following embodiments describe simple to use application tools for acquiring content and for creating templates to transform the content. The templates can be stored in a file or a database for later which allows content to be edited such that other types of content can be added to provide new look and feel content.

In the following embodiments syndication processing techniques are described in connection with an iTV centric environment. However the syndication processing techniques described herein are not intended to be limited to the iTV centric environment and can easily be implemented for other types of environments such as for example personal computer devices and mobile or electronic portable devices including wireless telephones pagers personal digital assistants PDAs Internet accessible electronic devices or other like devices.

The syndication processing techniques described herein can be implemented by a processor or central processing unit CPU executing code or instructions stored in a machine readable medium. The machine readable medium may include a mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form readable by a machine such a processor computer or a digital processing device. For example a machine readable medium may include a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media or flash memory devices. The code or instructions can be represented by carrier wave signals infrared signals digital signals and by other like signals.

In one embodiment network is the Internet hosting the World Wide Web WWW . The WWW allows for a uniform way of accessing information on the Internet using HTML compliant browsers. Network can be other types of networks such as for example a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . Network can also represent wired or wireless networks. Although one web server is shown in any number of web servers can be connected to network . Furthermore other types of network devices can also be connected to network which can provide content for TV such as for example a network router bridge gateway or other like network devices.

Set top box is a receiver for TV . Set top box receives input signals e.g. television signals to display on TV . Input signals can be broadcast signals from a plurality of programming sources. For example set top box can receive broadcast signals as input signals from an antenna cable or satellite source. Input signals can be analog or digital signals. Set top box can provide on screen displays OSDs or graphical user interfaces GUIs to facilitate interactive services e.g. accessing content on the Internet. As shown in set top box provides a set top browser such that a user of remote controller can control set top browser to access a web page from a web server connected to network . In an alternative embodiment remote controller can be replaced with an infrared IR keyboard.

Syndication server is a processing device which can acquire content from a range of sources on network and repackage the content for set top box . Alternatively syndication server can be hardware and or software modules operating within set top box to syndicate content from network for set top box . Syndication server can also transform content e.g. a web page on web server to be displayable for an application e.g. set top browser running on TV .

In one embodiment syndication server transforms an HTML web page into an XML file or document XML file . The XML file can be transformed for multiple types of platforms. For example syndication server can generate a standardized data stream from the XML file for display on multiple types of platforms or formats such as for example HTML portable document format PDR Postscript or other like formats. In one embodiment syndication server can incorporate enhanced Internet content with input signals such that the enhanced content is targeted for set top box . In other embodiments syndication server can transom content on network and target the content for other types of devices such as for example a personal computer or an electronic portable device.

Content harvest and conversion platform is a processing system which can harvest content on network and provide frameworks and templates for the content usable by syndication server . Alternatively content harvest and conversion platform can be hardware and or software modules operating within syndication server or set top box to harvest and transom content on network . In one embodiment content harvest and conversion platform is used to harvest and parse an HTML web page into an XML file.

The XML file can include any number of templates with new content and media added. For example an HTML web page is parsed and selected tags styles and content can either be replaced or removed thereby creating new content from the original HTML web page. Thus if a user wants to access a particular web page on web server content harvest and conversion platform can have predefined templates for that web page such that syndication server will provide the web page to set top box using the predefined templates. The internal operation and subsystems of content harvest and conversion platform will be explained in further detail below.

Remote controller is a control device for a user to provide inputs e.g. infrared IR or radio frequency RF signals to set top box and or TV . Remote controller can include alphanumeric keys options keys functions keys and other like keys to operate set top box or TV . In particular a user can access and navigate through set top browser on TV by pressing selectively certain buttons or keys on remote controller . Exemplary syndication system can also be implemented in numerous configurations. For example TV can have the functionality of set top box contained internally. TV can also be a computing device which can display television signals. Furthermore the functionality of syndication server and content harvest platform can be separate computing devices or hardware and software modules operating within set top box .

At operation capture templates are created to harvest content from disparate content sources on multiple platforms. For example content harvest and conversion platform provides the facilities and mechanisms to create capture templates and to harvest the content. The content can be from web page on web server . The web page can include HTML tags and attributes to display text and images for a personal computer display.

In one embodiment content harvest and conversion platform is used to create templates as XML files. Thus various types of templates can be created for different types of devices because XML allows content of data to be defined in a variety of ways. In one embodiment content and harvest conversion platform can be used to create templates for a mobile device such as for example a wireless telephone or personal data assistant PDA . Content and harvest conversion platform can also store the templates in repositories for later use. The templates can be created that adds new content to create new look and feel environments as will be explained in further detail below.

At operation data from the content is extracted using the created capture templates. For example content harvest and conversion platform can be used to extract pure data can be extracted from the web page such as for example the HTML tags and attributes.

At operation a standardized data stream is generated using the extracted data. For example content harvest and conversion platform can be used to generate the standardized data stream e.g. an XML data stream . The standardized data stream can be sent to syndication server .

At operation the standardized data stream is provided for display on one or more different types of platforms. For example syndication server can deliver the standardized data stream to set top box . Set top box can then direct the standardized data stream for display via set top browser operating on TV .

In one embodiment a user can request access to a web page from web server . The request can be processed by syndication server . Syndication server can request a standardized data stream for the web page from content harvest and conversion platform . Content harvest and conversion platform can provide the standardized data stream to syndication server using the capture templates as will be described in more detail below. Syndication server can then send the standardized data stream to set top box for display. Syndication server is thus able to deliver content designed for a computer display to a TV display.

Syndication server is responsible for the overall management of the system within exemplary architecture . In particular syndication server controls content flow to set top box . Syndication server can also control content flow to other types of devices e.g. a PDA or a wireless telephone. Syndication server can also coordinate client requests content delivery and commerce transactions that may be initiated e.g. by a user of TV . Syndication server interfaces with TV broadcast content and data streams . TV broadcast and data streams provide feeds into set top box for TV . TV can be a TV system supporting analog Digital Video Broadcasting DVB Advanced Television Systems Committee ATSC or other well known TV standards. In one embodiment syndication server can inject Internet Protocol IP based data into TV broadcast content and data streams going to set top box . For example syndication server can combine Internet content with TV broadcast content and data streams using the Advanced Television Enhancement Forum ATVEF standard. ATVEF is standard to provide web based content in a TV broadcast.

Syndication server also interfaces with Internet content and web sites which can be accessible by standard compliant browsers. Syndication server can combine the ability to broadcast content and the ability to request content to create new personalized experiences. For example syndication server can add new content to a web page being sent to set top box . That is syndication server can retrieve harvested content and combine a variety of new content types with the data broadcast to provide a new look and feel to the content. Syndication server uses content engine to create synthesized content. Syndication server can target the synthesized content for various types of platforms devices and audiences.

Syndication server can perform syndication on the fly in response to a user s request of TV . Syndication server can also be programmed to perform scheduled syndication of content to the user. In one embodiment syndication server is to operate using Java Script Pages JSP Java and Enterprise Java Beans EJB to convert standardized content data stream to other optimized formats for various types of platforms devices and audiences. In another embodiment syndication server is to operate using an open standard which includes the XML standard. In other embodiments syndication server is to operate using standard XML applications which include Extensible Style Sheet Language Transformation XSLT XML path language XPATH World Wide Web Consortium W3C Document Object Model DOM Application Program Interface API or other like standards. Such XML applications will be described in further detail below. Furthermore all syndication modules within syndication server can be packaged as enterprise java beans EJB which allows the modules to run within an EJB compliant application servers. An EJB compliant application server provides an architecture for the development and deployment of distributed object systems for the Java platform. Applications written using the EJB architecture are scalable transactional and multi user secure.

Content engine is responsible for creating and delivering content and media assets to device framework . Content engine uses a repository storing meta data properties rules and logic and content generator via proxy server to provide a dynamic and compelling targeted service to set top box or for other devices. Content engine can provide a service that is easy to update and change. Content engine manages localization and personalization of content and media assets for geographic and demographic targeting. In one embodiment content engine leverages existing algorithms for collaborative filtering and personalization by exposing meta data properties rules and logic in repository with external personalization management system .

Content engine dynamically composes content scripts and media for syndication server . Content engine can also generate code or instructions which are industry standard compliant to exploit specific platforms and devices. For example content engine can convert an HTML web page into an XML file. Content engine can use extensive routines and libraries provided by device framework to deliver a highly scalable environment. Content engine can be used to customize the content for geographic and demographic integration into the data broadcast which provides instant responsive and compelling experiences for the end user.

Content generator is responsible for producing well formed HTML XML JavaScript Java custom code and other media formats for targeting content to specific platforms and devices. Content generator uses meta data properties rules and logic with templates content and media and XML data files to generate content for delivery to content engine . Content generator uses content converter and content acquisition system Agent Spider to locate harvest convert and deliver existing Internet content for new interactive services. For example the Internet content can be HTTP file transfer protocol FTP or XML content which is to be converted. In one embodiment the Internet content is to be converted to an XML file.

Content generator uses templates content and media and repository storing meta data properties rules and logic to resolve object properties and design information. The meta data drives the generation process to be highly targeted and adapted for specific devices and users. Content generator can use an external content object cache to optimize the delivery of previously composed and loaded content. Content object cache is loaded dynamically and optimized to combine broadcasted content.

Content Converter is responsible for transforming e.g. XML data files or other type of media to new formats using templates content and media . Content converter manages and coordinates existing conversion tools and libraries to transform content. The templates and conversion rules are stored as templates content and media that is populated by the visual layout designer . A user can operate visual layout designer to create templates to describe how content should be laid out and what interface model and logic should be applied. XML data files are used to access service data and information that is combined with media content and script files. Each XML file type and content type are tagged with meta data to allow for fine tuned delivery of specific versions file sizes color depths visual style and audio quality. In one embodiment content converter transforms assets dynamically with caching . In another embodiment content converter can be scheduled in a batch mode other types of services.

Repository is a semantic network based data store of all objects and properties of the overall content syndication system . Repository can be one or more memory devices e.g. a fixed disk to store a database of meta data repositories rules and logic . In one embodiment repository uses an object fact and value based metadata model to store metadata information about design objects and properties. In one embodiment repository provides data to allow a semantic network based approach with a flexible verb table driven meta model which allows any information to be captured versioned catalogued indexed and queried. Repository can store screen designs templates business logic and conversion rules for content delivery to a variety of execution environments.

Repository can use a database to store metadata properties rules and logic . Repository can be used to provide a lazy on demand loading ability to load an object s facts and properties. Repository has the ability to store variants stacked configurations and language filtering to make storage of multiple versions of applications and content to be cost effective and very efficient. Repository uses pattern engine to provide projected views of the metadata to allow resolution of facts for composing object containments collaborations and properties. Pattern engine is used to fully resolve across platform types variants and locales and provides an elegant way to store and view multiple versions of the same service.

Pattern Engine is tightly integrated with the repository but requires special attention as it provides the algorithm and meta model to enable large scale reuse of complete architectures interface models and personalization logic from existing designs. Pattern engine takes into account existing proven system architectures and pre build components and applies domain and platform specific modifications to create dynamic customized version of each interactive service. Pattern engine is used by repository to provide projections of the design information for a specific configuration. Pattern engine uses advanced object oriented inheritance and semantic network taxonomy algorithms to provide an easy to use abstraction of the service for professional creative and business users.

Agent Spider is responsible for rapidly accessing content media and programming from existing Internet content and web sites . Agent spider is able to understand the structure of a web site and relevant web pages on any site and harvest the content from the site. Agent spider can be used to schedule periodic batch runs or accessed in real time to satisfy client requests for content. Agent spider stores content acquisition and conversion rules in a repository and employs advanced algorithms to navigate a web site s structure and locate a particular uniform resource instruction URI to extract information content and media assets without any changes to existing web sites and pages.

Agent spider accesses content using Internet standard protocols such as HTTP HTTPS FTP and other platform specific APIs. Agent spider uses existing standard HTML parser engine to read and transom the structure and content of any given page. The content acquisition subsystem of the agent spider is flexible and new acquisition modules can be easily plugged in. Agent spider is able to locate acquire and convert content dynamically in real time in a highly scalable manner. Agent spider is capable of advanced agent behavior including responding to events site changes and transactions from existing sources. Agent spider is able to acquire content that requires security and authorization including secure sockets layer SSL .

HTML converter converts existing HTML type content into clean well formed documents xHTML for conversion into XML service specific schemas and data files. An XML schema offers an XML centric means to constrain XML documents. The conversion logic and process is stored in a content acquisition and conversion rules repository . HTML converter creates XML data files based on the conversion rules in the repository and creates XML data files and streams that are used by content converter and content generator subsystems to create dynamically content for specific platforms and device frameworks. The XML files created represent the data and properties of any service and are used to generate the user interface interaction model and view of the service. HTML converter is also responsible for converting other XML and other custom content data feeds from a variety of sources. HTML converter is designed to be extended using a plug in architecture for adding on new conversion modules. HTML converter is responsible for language encoding and XML document type destination DTD conversion. HTML converter allows custom code and routines to be used to parse and convert HTML and XML files.

Visual layout designer is responsible for providing the user interface for creative professionals and business users to rapidly layout and customize rich interactive services. Visual layout designer is used to provide a drag and drop environment for defining and creating the content transformation and mapping rules. Visual layout designer uses a content wizard to guide the user through all of the relevant steps of setting up a syndication channel. The syndication content acquisition and conversion rules are stored in a separate repository for access during the syndication process. Visual layout designer allows users to configure specific platform and language properties to create custom platform specific services. Existing industry standard data types and content creation tools can be used in the process to combine and layout content and designs for new interactive services. Visual layout designer uses pattern engine and repository to read query and store design information about the screens templates and user interaction model. The design information is stored in both repository database and the template and content repository database

Visual layout designer uses such repositories to show designers specific variants of the design visually and enable them to easily design layout and create multiple platform and language versions of their service. Visual layout designer allows developers to rapidly integrate existing and new content to create rich new services targeted at a variety of platforms and devices. Visual layout designer generates metadata information that is stored in the design and conversion repositories.

Device framework is responsible for managing the client side components and logic to provide a rich compelling interactive user experience. In one embodiment device framework is a module within set top box . In another embodiment device framework is a module within content harvest and conversion platform . Device framework include routines and components for exploiting the platform application program interfaces APIs playing specific media types and enabling seamless user interaction models. Device framework uses a proprietary cross platform method to enable content and services to run on any device capable for Internet standard protocols including ATVEF compliant receivers. Device framework requests information and services from content engine and executes the content on the device. Device framework comprises of a rich set of object models and components that work across multiple platforms that abstract the core functionality required on every device.

Device framework manages and controls the user experience including navigation security and interaction models. Device framework includes the ability to change dynamically the appearance of the interface providing highly customized look and feel. Device framework manages the network connection for the device and control caching as well as peripheral devices. Device framework includes components to exploit specific platforms and enable rich end user experiences for any device including set top box . In one embodiment set top box is an ATVEF compliant receiver or an advanced set top box to deliver interactive and enhanced content.

At operation an HTML web page is parsed. For example HTML parser engine can parse an HTML web page from Internet content and web sites e embodiment selected tags styles and content are either replaced or removed from the HTML page. Such a modification can be displayed in a browser to see the changes.

At operation an XML file is created from the parsed HTML web page. For example HTML XML converter can be used to convert the parsed HTML web page from parser engine into an XML file which can be stored in XML data files

At operation the XML file or document can be transformed into a displayable format. For example content converter and content generator can be used together to transform an XML file stored in XML data files . In one embodiment an XML file is transformed into an HTML web page. An extensible style sheet transformation XSLT application can be used to perform such a transformation.

An XSL application transforms and translates XML data from one format into another. Thus an XSL application allows an XML file to be displayed in an HTML PDR Postscript or other like formats. That is without an XSL application the XML document would have to be manually duplicated and then converted into each of separate format. Instead an XSL application provides a mechanism of defining style sheets to accomplish these types of tasks. In particular rather than having to change the data because of a different representation an XSL application provides a complete separation of data content and presentation. Specifically an XSL application is used to map an XML file into another representation. Using XSL is thus comparable to writing a Java program to translate data into e.g. a PDF or HTML document but supplies a standard interface to accomplish such a task.

In one embodiment such a transformation can either occur within content harvest and conversion platform syndication server or even in set top box . In other embodiments the XML file can be transformed into another XML file. Alternatively the XML file does not have to be transformed but can include an HTML page with special links.

Referring to set top box includes a central processing unit CPU coupled to memory devices input output I O devices and decoder . Decoder can receive inputs signals and syndicated content. The syndicated content can be enhanced interactive television content. Decoder can receive input signals as analog NTSC or digital ATSC signals from a number sources including terrestrial cable and satellite sources. Decoder outputs a TV signal to TV which can be enhanced with the syndicated content. Although not shown in device frame can be a module operating within set top box .

CPU is the central control mechanism for set top box . CPU can execute code or instructions stored in memory devices to process information from network . For example I O interfaces may include a connection to network provided by a dial up modem. I O interfaces can also include an IR or RF interface for receiving inputs from remote controller . Memory devices can include a machine readable medium that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form readable by a machine such a processor computer or a digital processing device. For example memory devices may include a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media or flash memory devices. The code or instructions can be represented by carrier wave signals infrared signals digital signals and by other like signals.

Referring to a user of set top browser can request access to a web page hosted by web server . For example a user can input a specific universal resource locator URL address to access a specific web page. As such set top browser sends a request to syndication server . Syndication server then sends a request to web server for the requested web page. Web server can send the appropriate content e.g. the HTML web page or XML data representing the web page as a response to syndication server .

Syndication server then transforms e.g. the HTML web page from web server into syndicated content for the set top browser running on TV . In one embodiment content harvest and conversion platform performs the transformation process using software modules which may be executed within the harvest and conversion platform or within syndication server . Syndication server can also perform such functions which include caching web pages storing web pages in a data base consolidating diverse source feeds into an XML file or an HTML web page that is sent to set top box filtering information or tracking usage.

Syndication feed manager can be hardware and or software modules to receive syndicated input. The syndicated input is a syndication feed that is a source of syndication data such as for example a web page XML file XML data stream or other like data streams. Syndication feed manager pipes the syndicated data into syndication server . In one embodiment if the syndication input is a web page web page content template is used to direct syndication feed manager to the parts of the web page that are of interest. Web content template formats the parts into an XML file for output.

In one embodiment syndication feed manager is wrapped by a java bean to expose the Document Object Model DOM of the XML output as an Application Program Interface API . A DOM provides a means of manipulating data for an XML file or document. The DOM provides a representation of an XML file or document as a tree to provide easy manipulation and alteration. A java bean is a program component which can be executed by a client. Thus syndication feed manager may be embedded into servlet Java Server Pages JSP or Application Server Pages ASP . A JSP is used to control the content or appearance of web pages through the use of a servlet which is a small program that is specified in the web page and runs on the web server to modify the web page. An ASP is an HTML page that includes one or more scripts small embedded programs that are processed by a web server before the page is sent to the user.

Web page content wizard is an authoring application tool to create web page templates for use by syndication feed manager . In other embodiments syndication feed manager or syndication transformation manager can act as an authoring application tool. To create web page templates web page content wizard allows content to be marked up and mapped to a template for use by syndication feed manager . Web page content wizard starts with a web page selected by a user and displays the web page with the html structure revealed. The user can select content such as for example the second paragraph or the table2 row 3 cell 4 and label it for inclusion into a separate template.

A web page capture template is built as the user progresses starting with a root node that references the user elected web page and progressing to sub nodes that reference user elected content on the web page and further to other web pages referenced from the root page or even web pages that are not physically linked to the root page but whose content is relevant. The labels applied to the separate areas of content are meaningful human readable names and are used in other areas of the design process. In one embodiment the web page content template is an XML file. An exemplary XML file is shown below.

The template may also include macros and regular expressions to further refine content extraction. Web page content wizard can capture repeating patterns such as a list of products and can navigate across the web pages. Web page content wizard also allows rules to be specified e.g. what action to take should some user content be missing or empty.

In other embodiments web page content wizard can be used to create a template using a DTD file or Xschema file. However this creates just the entity names without the links specifying where the content came from. Web page content wizard may then be used to load templates and fill in the links. The authoring operation of creating templates using web page content wizard will be explained in further detail below.

Syndication transformation manager accepts an XML stream or file output by syndication feed manager and transforms the XML stream or file for display by set top box . Syndication transformation manager may output the XML file as HTML web page. Alternatively syndication manager may output the XML file as another type of XML file having different XML data from syndication feed manager .

In one embodiment syndication transformation manager performs the transformation using an XSLT application. XSLT is a text based transformation in which XML data is merged with an Extensible Style Sheet Language XSL . In one embodiment an application such as RadTV Designer can be used to perform the XSLT transformation. In another embodiment a text editor such as a word processing application can be used to perform the XSLT transformation. Syndication transformation manager can use modules coded in java or java script and plugged in on the client side to perform such a transformation.

Servlet is software component or small program that runs within syndication server . Servlet is invoked after receiving XML or HTML data from syndication transformation manager or after receiving a GET request from set top box . The GET request can be for a specific web page.

The caches shown in diagram can any type of memory devices. Such memory devices can include random access memory RAM devices dynamic random access memory DRAM devices flash memory devices or other like memory devices. The caches can be controlled using any number of memory management methods e.g. a Most Recently Used MRU method can be used to remove old data from the caches.

Local cache for set top box my store pre loaded content in anticipation of a scheduled television program such as a commercial. Syndication server can coordinate with set top box to output cached contents to a user. Ready for TV web page cache caches content e.g. web pages that are formatted for a particular device such as TV . In one embodiment the contents of ready for TV web page cache can be delivered to other web servers. This cache is useful if many users request the same web page at the same time.

Syndicated XML content cache caches the XML DOMs that are the result of syndication. Syndicated XML content cache is useful if more than one JSP ASP servlet or other technology that converts XML content into a TV Web Page and makes use of a single XML capture template. This happens if there many instances of a servlet JSP accessing a single XML file concurrently or there are many different TV page designs for displaying the same type of content e.g. weather or news content. Syndicated XML content may obtain data from more than one web page.

Syndicated web page cache caches web pages retrieved from syndicated sites. This cache is useful if more than one capture template gets content from a single web page. Prepared template cache caches capture templates after they have been prepared for use. This cache is useful whenever the syndicated content needs to be refreshed from the web page. The caching provided in diagram is useful in the event of a failure to syndication server . That is stale cached data can be provided instead of providing no data. For example if content related to a weather report was cached two hours ago the same cached content can still be provided as the latest forecast. In one embodiment the contents of the caches can be stored in persistent data storage devices such as for example a fixed disk.

Items in the caches may become stale. For example a web page of a weather forecast becomes out of date when a new forecast is issued. In one embodiment to refresh an item in cache the following techniques can be used based on expiration and validation of the item. If an item is expired a timestamp is placed on the item the time it became stale. If an item is requested from the cache having a stale timestamp its stale timestamp is compared to the current time. If the item is stale a latest version of the data is obtained.

If an item is requested from a cache the last updated timestamp of the cached version is compared to the source version and the cache is updated as necessary. In one embodiment the expiration validation techniques may execute if an item is requested and found in a cache or may run as a background process. The stale date and the request to perform validation should be provided by HTTP headers. If no HTTP headers are available defaults are provided from the capture template. In one embodiment syndication server caches HTTP content in accordance with the HTTP standards based on HTTP headers and returns.

At operation a web page is displayed in a browser. For example as shown in a screen shot of a web page at www.xyz.com for a clothing retailer is displayed. The browser can be any type of browser such as for example the Internet Explorer browser by Microsoft. Images through can represent any number of images of clothing items.

At operation the HTML structure of the web page is viewed. For example the web page can have a tree structure such as that shown in screen shot in . The tree structure can be titled as xyzmens.xml. In one embodiment the tree structure is shown along the web page. By viewing the tree structure attributes of the HTML tree structure can be filtered out. In one embodiment screen shot details men s clothing categories. One of the tables is a list of men s categories. The rows in the table are individual categories.

At operation a web page content template is viewed. For example as shown in screen shot in the web page content template is for an XML file. The XML file can be titled as template.xml. The web page content template can be viewed alongside the HTML tree structure.

At operation content references from either the web page or HTML tree are dragged into the web page content template. For example the html folder in screen shot is dragged across to the web page content template and renamed as xyzmensclothing as shown in screen shot . The HTML tree structure can be expanded as shown in screen shot in to view the list of categories. Here by clicking on a table or row will highlight it in the browser window a user can easily locate its location in the HTML tree. A marked table can be dragged to web page content template and renamed as categorylist as shown in screen shot in . The first tr in the table is dragged across and renamed as category as shown in screen shot .

At operation a group that is repeating is marked. For example the tr table can be marked as repeating. The tr entry can be expanded in the HTML tree structure. The tr entry image and hyperlink can be dragged into the web page content template and renamed as shown in screen shot in . It should be noted that what has been captured in the web page content template is the location of the objects and not the object.

At operation more content references are added to the web page content template by clicking through to another page. For example at the web browser a user can click through to the xyz classics as shown in screen shot in . Here the HTML tree structure for screen shot is loaded and expanded to provide a list of items as shown in screen shot in .

At operation content of the original web page is changed. For example the innermost table can be dragged into the web page content template tree and renamed as product list as shown in screen shot in . It should be noted that in the expanded tree there are 11 tr entries but only 8 items of clothing listed in the browser. The list of items of clothing actually begins on the third tr entry and continues to the second last. The third tr can be dragged across to the web page content template and renamed as product as shown in screen shot . This item can be marked as repeating.

In the HTML structure tree the tr is expanded as shown in screen shot in . The name price and URL are dragged for more product detail to the web page content template as shown in screen shot in . Back on the category page click on the Jean Jacket and discover that the layout of the items is completely different to the layout for XYZ Classics as shown in screen shot in . Thus by using the web page content authoring application tool the original content can be altered to provide a new look and feel. Such a new look and feel can be optimized for a TV centric environment in which items and categories are optimized for display on a TV screen.

Further processing can also be performed. For example in one option the web page content template can be modified to capture only categories and to create a new web page content template for each page that lists items. The can later be combined in a transformation process. In another option the web page content template can be modified so as not to define the list of categories as a repeating group. For example in the web page content template tree the repeats entry can be removed and category copied for times. Each of the instances can be renamed after one of the xyz categories as shown in screen shot in .

Each of the named categories has all the entries under it that you defined for category earlier. Display the first XYZ Mens Categories web page in the browser and drag the category tr entries across from the browser onto the respective named categories. In the browser click through to the list of products under the Jean Jackets and drag across the new locations for the product list and details.

A web page is a tree structure of HTML tags and attributes. The content of the web page is captured by navigating through a path from a root node of the tree structure to the content node. The web page and path are held against an element in the capture template file i.e. an XML file . For example an XML file having the following size element will obtain content from the body section second table first tree tag and etc.

The above capture template element is processed by syndication server to obtain a result that will contain an element called size whose text is the content found at the given location. The nesting of the elements in the capture template file is preserved through to the content file.

The Uniform Resource Locator URL attribute supplies the URL of the web page containing the content. The Function attribute tells syndication server what extra processing is required to get the content from the HTML tree. For example 

These functions should not be confused with processing by content converter . Content converter converts and specifies data manipulation to be done once the content has been found. These functions specify how to find the data. The functions may also be considered as an extension of the path.

An axis node is a node in the HTML tree that serves as a reference point for finding other nodes. The root node is the default axis node but other axis nodes may be defined. In the capture template file an axis node is identified by comparing the path information from one element to the path information of another element. For example 

When performing path analysis to identify an axis node the tree structure of the template XML file is important. A location attribute will only be compared against location attributes of ancestor elements. In other words the structure of the template file should reflect the structure of the HTML tree. To be more precise the HTML node identified by an XML node in the template file should be a sub node of the axis HTML node identified by a parent template XML node. This is a restriction otherwise the relationships of HTML nodes can be re arranged and reordered as desired through placement of template elements. In one embodiment the only time that the analysis to find an axis node is performed is for repeating patterns which is described below. All other nodes are located from the root axis node.

Web pages often include repeating patterns. To the end user these repeating patterns appear as lists table rows and etc. When looking at the web page tree structure they can be seen as identical sub trees repeating themselves one after the next. By identifying the root node of the first repeating sub tree as the first axis node the pattern is captured in the capture template file. Syndication server uses the information in the capture template file to locate all the axis nodes in the HTML tree and then walks the axis nodes capturing the content from the sub tree for each node. In the above BulletPoint example the NextItemAfter attribute identifies the number of sibling nodes starting from the root node of the first repeating subtree to count before the pattern repeats itself.

As shown in a screen shot is illustrated having tree bullet points seen through a browser. The same bullet points can be seen in the HTML tree as shown in screen shot in . The second tr node of the table is the root node of the repeating subtree. This is the first of the three axis nodes in this example. Each axis node has a sub node containing text that can be navigated using a single path definition from the axis node.

Node content functions inform syndication server how to extract content. A node content function starts from a node and gathers content relative to the node.

The function e.g. SRC Starting from the first retrieves the value for SRC http image.weather.com pics blank.gif. The All function starting from the first retrieves one long string containing all elements attributes and text as shown below.

XML files or documents that are created can be used by content harvest and conversion platform and syndication server and can be defined for specific types of applications and audiences using document type definitions DTDs . A DTD establishes a set of constraints for an XML file or document. That is a DTD defines the way a XML document should be constructed. For example content related to different types of services e.g. news weather traffic stock etc. may have different types of DTDs.

In one embodiment content harvest and conversion platform and syndication server can use default DTDs for different types of services being provided. In particular an industry standard DTD can be used as a baseline. The following are exemplary namespaces which can be used for services providing news weather traffic or stock content 

A namespace is a mapping between an element prefix and a URI. This mapping is used for handling namespace collisions and defining data structures that allow parsers to handle collisions.

The industry standard DTD for news is News Industry Text Format NITF which can be found at http www.iptc.org iptcl. A DTD that is a subset of NITF may be found at http www.xmlnews.org . In one embodiment the xmlnews.org DTD xmlnewsstory.dtd is used. Xmlnewsorg also has meta definitions to describe news content xmlnews meta.dtd which can also be used. These DTD s are designed for news articles. An exemplary XML file with a news DTD is shown in Table 2 below.

A DTD can be created for a variety of audiences such as audiences interested in weather. An exemplary XML file with a weather DTD is shown in Table 4 below.

The XML file shown Table 4 can be transformed into an HTML web page to be displayed on TV . That is syndication server can transform the XML file in Table 4 to display a web page such as that shown in screen shot in . As such syndication server by using well defined DTDs can provide well formed content for specific audiences and services.

Thus a method and system for transforming content for execution on multiple platforms have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

