---

title: Fatty acid inhibitors
abstract: Fatty acid inhibitors, pharmaceutical compositions including fatty acid inhibitors, methods for using fatty acid inhibitors to treat a variety of diseases, and methods for preparing fatty acid inhibitors are provided herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08470879&OS=08470879&RS=08470879
owner: Life Technologies Corporation
number: 08470879
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101102
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 257 315 filed Nov. 2 2009 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention are generally directed to functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that form stable covalent bonds with thiol containing amino acids in the active site of proteins. In some embodiments the covalent bond may be more stable than transient covalent bonds created during binding of the native substrate and in other embodiments the covalent bond may be irreversible. Binding of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described herein may inhibit activity of the binding protein by eliminating binding of the native substrate to the active site of the protein and in some embodiments binding of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may irreversibly activate binding proteins by locking the binding protein in an active conformation inducing for example continuous activation of certain signaling pathways.

In various embodiments the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be of Formulae I Ia II or IIa 

Still other embodiments are directed to pharmaceutical compositions including one or more functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors such as those provided above and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier and methods for treating a disease that include administering such pharmaceutical compositions to an individual in need of treatment.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a cell is a reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Thus as used herein the term administering when used in conjunction with a nitrated lipid can include but is not limited to providing a nitrated lipid to a subject systemically by for example intravenous injection whereby the therapeutic reaches the target tissue. Administering a composition may be accomplished by for example injection oral administration topical administration or by these methods in combination with other known techniques. Such combination techniques include heating radiation ultrasound and the use of delivery agents.

The term animal as used herein includes but is not limited to humans and non human vertebrates such as wild domestic and farm animals.

The term improves is used to convey that the present invention changes either the characteristics and or the physical attributes of the tissue to which it is being provided applied or administered. The term improves may also be used in conjunction with a diseased state such that when a diseased state is improved the symptoms or physical characteristics associated with the diseased state are diminished reduced or eliminated.

The term inhibiting includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms alleviating the symptoms or eliminating the disease condition or disorder.

By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. In part embodiments of the present invention are directed to the treatment of inflammation obesity related diseases metabolic diseases cardiovascular diseases cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative diseases cancer or the aberrant proliferation of cells.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to inhibit block or reverse the activation migration or proliferation of cells. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both medical therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. However it will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the above dosage ranges are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue 

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects. Treatment also includes prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

Generally speaking the term tissue refers to any aggregation of similarly specialized cells which are united in the performance of a particular function.

Nitric oxide NO is an endogenously generated lipophilic signaling molecule that has been implicated in the maintenance of vascular homeostasis modulation of oxygen radical reactions inflammatory cell function post translational protein modification and regulation of gene expression. In addition nitric oxide derived species display separate and unique pharmacological properties specifically can mediate oxidation and nitration of biomolecules such as for example unsaturated fatty acids.

Various reactions yield products capable of concerted oxidation nitrosation and nitration of target molecules. For example nitric oxide may react with superoxide O to yield peroxynitrite ONOO and its conjugate acid peroxynitritrous acid ONOOH the latter of which may undergo homolytic scission to form nitrogen dioxide .NO and hydroxyl radical .OH . In some instances biological conditions may favor the reaction of ONOO with COwhich yields nitrosoperoxycarbonate ONOOCO which rapidly yields .NOand carbonate .CO radicals via homolysis or rearrangement to NO and CO. During inflammation neutrophil myeloperoxidase and heme proteins such as myoglobin and cytochrome c catalyze HO dependent oxidation of nitrite NO to .NO resulting in biomolecule oxidation and nitration that is influenced by the spatial distribution of catalytic heme proteins. The reaction of .NO with Ocan also produce products that can be substrates or reactants for nitrosation and nitration. For example the small molecular radius uncharged nature and lipophilicity of .NO and Ofacilitate concentration of these species in biological membranes in a process referred to as the molecular lens effect. The increase in concentration induced by .NO and Osolvation in hydrophobic cell compartments accelerates the normally slow reaction of .NO with Oto yield NOand NO. Finally environmental sources also yield .NOas a product of photochemical air pollution and tobacco smoke.

Nitration of fatty acids by .NOcan occur through several methods. For example during both basal cell signaling and tissue inflammatory conditions .NOcan react with membrane and lipoprotein lipids. In both in vivo and in vitro systems .NOhas been shown to initiate radical chain auto oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids via hydrogen abstraction from the bis allylic carbon to form nitrous acid and a resonance stabilized bis allylic radical. Depending on the radical environment the lipid radical species can react with molecular oxygen to form a peroxyl radical which can react further to form lipid hydroperoxides then oxidized lipids. During inflammation or ischemia when Olevels are lower lipid radicals can react to an even greater extent with .NOto generate multiple nitration products including singly nitrated nitrohydroxy and dinitro fatty acid adducts. These products can be generated via hydrogen abstraction direct addition of .NOacross the double bond or both and in some cases such reactions may be followed by further reactions of the intermediate products that are formed. Hydrogen abstraction causes a rearrangement of the double bonds to form a conjugated diene however the addition of .NOmaintains a methylene interrupted diene configuration to yield singly nitrated polyunsaturated fatty acids. This arrangement is similar to nitration products generated by the nitronium ion NO which can be produced by ONOO reaction with heme proteins or via secondary products of COreaction with ONOO.

The reaction of polyunsaturated fatty acids with acidified nitrite HNO can generate a complex mixture of products similar to those formed by direct reaction with .NO including the formation of singly nitrated products that maintain the bis allylic bond arrangement. The acidification of NO can create a labile species HNO which is in equilibrium with secondary products including NO .NO and .NO all of which can participate in nitration reactions. The relevance of this pathway as a mechanism of fatty acid nitration is exemplified by physiological and pathological conditions wherein NO is exposed to low pH e.g. 

Nitrated linoleic acid LNO has been shown to display robust cell signaling activities that are generally anti inflammatory in nature. Synthetic LNOcan inhibit human platelet function via cAMP dependent mechanisms and inhibits neutrophil O generation calcium influx elastase release CD11b expression and degranulation via non cAMP non cGMP dependent mechanisms. LNOmay also induce vessel relaxation in part via cGMP dependent mechanisms. In aggregate these data derived from a synthetic fatty acid infer that nitro derivatives of fatty acids NO FA represent a novel class of lipid derived signaling mediators. To date a gap in the clinical detection and structural characterization of nitrated fatty acids has limited defining NO FA derivatives as biologically relevant lipid signaling mediators that converge .NO and oxygenated lipid signaling pathways.

As used herein a duration enhanced effectively irreversible fatty acid inhibitors functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors or fatty acid inhibitor refers to a fatty acid having at least one electron withdrawing group covalently bound to a carbon of the saturated or unsaturated aliphatic chain of a fatty acid. Such fatty acid inhibitors may be substituted by any number of electron withdrawing groups at any number of positions on the hydrocarbon chain and such electron withdrawing groups may or may not be associated with a carbon carbon double bond. Similarly the fatty acid inhibitors described herein may include any number of double bonds which may or may not be associated with an electron withdrawing group.

Embodiments described herein are generally directed to activated unsaturated fatty acids and in particular duration enhanced effectively irreversible fatty acid inhibitors functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors or fatty acid inhibitor that can irreversibly bind to proteins or for a more stable and hence long lasting bond of a protein than native fatty acids or activated fatty acid. Many proteins are known which bind to and react with fatty acids and activated fatty acids. Without wishing to be bound by theory such proteins may bind to fatty acid inhibitors and form a more permanent i.e. irreversible or more long lasting bond with the protein and such irreversible or long lasting bonds may inhibit interactions with other fatty acids or activated fatty acid which may for example slow the catabolism of native substrates such as fatty acids or activated fatty acids inhibit further activation proteins that bind fatty acid inhibitors such as for example cell surface receptors or permanently activate proteins that bind such proteins.

In general the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described herein include at least one an electron withdrawing group which may be associated with a double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle. In some embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may have one electron withdrawing group and in other embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be substituted with multiple electron withdrawing groups at multiple positions along the hydrocarbon chain. In embodiments in which the electron withdrawing group is associated with a double bond the electron withdrawing group may be positioned in either cis or trans configuration at the double bond or in either R or S absolute stereochemistry at an spchiral stereogenic center. The fatty acid inhibitors may have an electron withdrawing group associated with a carbon carbon double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle positioned at any carbon along the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain between the carboxy terminal carbon to the terminal methyl . For example in some embodiments the electron withdraviing group associated with a carbon carbon double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle may be positioned within about 1 carbon from the carboxy terminal carbon and within about 1 carbon from the terminal methyl and in other embodiments the electron withdrawing group associated with a carbon carbon double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle may be positioned within about 3 carbons of either the carboxy terminal carbon and or the terminal methyl. In still other embodiments the electron withdrawing group associated with a carbon carbon double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle may be positioned within 5 carbons of either of the carboxy terminal carbon and or the methyl terminal carbon. While the length of the alkyl chain of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors of various embodiments may vary the alkyl chains embodied above with regard to the position of the electron withdrawing group associated with a carbon carbon double bond a heteroatom and or a strained heterocycle may be from about 18 to about 24 carbons in length.

In certain embodiments the electron withdrawing group may be positioned on a carbon directly attached to a double bond of the fatty acid inhibitor forming an electron withdrawing vinyl group. The electron withdrawing group of such vinyl groups may be on either side of the double bond. Thus embodiments encompass regioisomers of any compound described herein. Fatty acids encompassed by embodiments of the invention may have one or more than one electron withdrawing vinyl groups at any carbon on the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain and there are several ways that an unsaturated fatty acid can have one electron withdrawing group. For example in some embodiments an activated oleic acid ocatadecac 9 enoic acid which is an 18 carbon 6 fatty acid with one double bond denoted 18 1 between the 6 C 13 and 7 C 12 carbons may have an electron withdrawing group at either C 13 or C 12. In other exemplary embodiments an activated linoleic acid octadeac 9 12 dienoic acid which is an 18 carbon 6 fatty acid with two double bonds denoted 18 2 between the 6 C 13 and 7 C 12 carbons and the 9 C 10 and 10 C 9 carbons may have an electron withdrawing group at C 9 or C 10 or C 12 or C 13. Similarly other polyunsaturated fatty acids with 3 4 5 6 or more double bonds can have one electron withdrawing at either position on any of the double bond carbons including all possible permutations of positions and electron withdrawing groups. As described above the electron withdrawing group of such compounds may be positioned in either cis or trans configuration at the double bond or in either R or S absolute stereochemistry at an spchiral stereogenic center.

In other embodiments a mono or polyunsaturated fatty acid may have two or more electron withdrawing groups and there are several ways that an unsaturated fatty acid can have two or more electron withdrawing groups. For example in some embodiments an activated oleic acid ocatadecac 9 enoic acid which is an 18 carbon 6 fatty acid with one double bond denoted 18 1 between the 6 C 13 and 7 C 12 carbons may have an electron withdrawing group at both C 13 and C 12. In other exemplary embodiments an activated linoleic acid octadeac 9 12 dienoic acid which is an 18 carbon 6 fatty acid with two double bonds denoted 18 2 between the 6 C 13 and 7 C 12 carbons and the 9 C 10 and 10 C 9 carbons may have an electron withdrawing group at any two of the positions C 9 C 10 C 12 or C 13 with the following possible permutations C 9 and C 10 C 9 and C 12 C 9 and C 13 C 10 and C 12 C 10 and C 13 or C 12 and C 13. In other embodiments a heteroatom or functional group located within the aliphatic chain may act as an electron withdrawing group when positioned within at least 2 carbons from a carbon carbon double bond. Therefore for example a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor having a an in chain heteroatom such as O N or S or a functional group such as a carbonyl adjacent to a carbon carbon double bond and an electron withdrawing groups such as a nitro group at another carbon carbon double bond may be considered a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor having two electron withdrawing groups.

In analogy to the preceding descriptions of compounds with one electron withdrawing group or two electron withdrawing groups it is also possible to have three four five or more electron withdrawing groups. Following the same logic above in the preceding descriptions of compounds with one electron withdrawing group or two electron withdrawing groups polyunsaturated fatty acids with 3 4 5 6 or more double bonds can have multiple electron withdrawing three four five or more as available positions for substitution permit at any of the positions on any of the double bond carbons including all possible permutations of positions and electron withdrawing groups. Additionally in any embodiments such as those described above any number of non electron withdrawing groups may be covalently bound to carbons of the aliphatic chain of the fatty acid inhibitor. For example in some embodiments the fatty acid inhibitors of the invention may include one or more methyl C Calkyl alkenyl or alkynyl or nitrogen containing group sulfur containing group phosphorus containing group halogen or any other heteroatom containing group covalently attached to one or more carbons of the aliphatic chain of a fatty acid inhibitor.

The term electron withdrawing group is recognized in the art and denotes the tendency of a substituent to attract valence electrons from neighboring atoms i.e. the substituent is electronegative with respect to neighboring atoms. A quantification of the level of electron withdrawing capability is given by the Hammett sigma a constant see e.g. J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry McGraw Hill Book Company New York 1977 edition pp. 251 259 . The Hammett constant values are generally negative for electron donating groups and positive for electron withdrawing groups. For example the Hammet constant for para substituted NH P is about 0.7 and the P for a nitro group is about 0.8.

Embodiments of the invention encompass any known electron withdrawing group. For example electron withdrawing groups may include but are not limited to aldehyde COH acyl COR carbonyl CO carboxylic acid COOH ester COOR halides Cl F Br etc. fluoromethyl CF cyano CN sulfonyl sulfone SOR sulfonic acid SOH 1 2 and 3 ammonium NR and nitro NO where each R may independently be hydrogen methyl or Cto Calkyl alkenyl or alkynyl. In some embodiments the electron withdrawing group may be a strong electron withdrawing group having a of at least about 0.2 and in certain embodiments the electron withdrawing group may form a dipole. For example in particular embodiments the electron withdrawing group may be a nitro ammonium or sulfonyl. In other embodiments the fatty acid inhibitors of the invention may be additionally substituted by non electron withdrawing groups or electron donating groups including for example alcohol OH reverse ester OOCR alkyl alkenyl alkynyl 1 and 2 amines NR nitrate ONO nitrito ONO and the like.

The fatty acids of embodiments may be any unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acid known in the art. The term fatty acid describes aliphatic monocarboxylic acids. Various embodiments include fatty acid inhibitors having an aliphatic hydrocarbon chain identical or similar to identified naturally occurring fatty acids. For example aliphatic hydrocarbon chains of known naturally occurring fatty acids are generally unbranched and contain an even number of from about 4 to about 24 carbons and others include fatty acids having from 12 to 18 carbons in the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain. In still other embodiments fatty acids may have greater than 24 carbons in the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain. Embodiments of the invention encompass such naturally occurring fatty acids as well as non naturally occurring fatty acids which may contain an odd number of carbons and or a non naturally occurring linker. Thus some embodiments of the invention include fatty acids having an odd number of carbons of for example from 5 to 23 carbons and in other embodiments from 11 to 17 carbons. In yet other embodiments the fatty acids of embodiments may have greater than 23 carbons.

The aliphatic hydrocarbon chain of fatty acids of various embodiments may be unsaturated or polyunsaturated. The term unsaturated refers to a fatty acid having a aliphatic hydrocarbon chain that includes at least one double bond and or substituent. In contrast a saturated hydrocarbon chain does not include any double bonds or substituents. Thus each carbon of the hydrocarbon chain is saturated and has the maximum number of hydrogens. Polyunsaturated generally refers to fatty acids having hydrocarbon chains with more than one double bond. The double bonds of the unsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids of various embodiments may be at any location along the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain and may be in either cis or trans configuration. The term cis refers to a double bond in which carbons adjacent to the double bond are on the same side and the term trans refers to a double bond in which carbons adjacent to the double bond are on opposite sides. Typically cis is the same as Z and trans is the same as E but sometimes the IUPAC rules for naming compounds will give the opposite of this which is the typical case in nitroalkenes. For example a nitroalkene can have the two carbon groups cis but the two groups that take priority for the naming of compounds a nitro group on one carbon of the alkene and a carbon group on the other carbon of the alkene are on opposite sides and thus are E. Therefore the nitroalkene analog of a cis double bond is actually an E nitroalkene. Similarly the nitroalkene analog of a trans double bond is actually a Z nitroalkene. Without wishing to be bound by theory double bonds in cis configuration along the carbon chain cis carbon chain but E nitroalkene may induce a bend in the hydrocarbon chain. Double bonds in trans configuration along the carbon chain trans carbon chain but Z nitroalkene may not cause the hydrocarbon chain to bend. Embodiments of the invention may include fatty acid inhibitors having double bonds in either cis or trans configuration and encompass compositions that may include combinations of cis and trans containing fatty acid inhibitors and regioisomers of the fatty acid inhibitors.

Various embodiments of the invention include unsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids that may have a carbon carbon double bond between any two carbons of the aliphatic chain of the fatty acid and any number of carbon carbon double bonds may be present in such polyunsaturated fatty acids. For example in some embodiments polyunsaturated fatty acids may have 2 3 4 5 6 or more carbon carbon double bonds. In such embodiments each of the more than one carbon carbon double bond may individually be in either cis or trans configuration. In some embodiments at least one of the carbon carbon double bonds of a polyunsaturated fatty acid may have an associated electron withdrawing group and in other embodiments more than one of the carbon carbon double bonds of such polyunsaturated fatty acids may have an associated electron withdrawing group. Additionally in such embodiments the electron withdrawing group may be associated with either carbon of the carbon carbon double bond or a carbon directly adjacent to either carbon of the carbon carbon double bond. For example in some embodiments an electron withdrawing group may be attached to the alpha carbon of the carbon carbon double bond and in other embodiments an electron withdrawing group may be associated with the beta carbon of the carbon carbon double bond. In still other embodiments an electron withdrawing group may be associated with the gamma carbon the carbon directly adjacent to and attached to a carbon carbon double bond. In embodiments where a polyunsaturated fatty acid includes two or more carbon carbon double bonds along the aliphatic chain and an electron withdrawing group is associated with any of the two or more carbon carbon double bonds or each of the two or more of the carbon carbon double bonds each electron withdrawing group may be attached to any carbon associated with each individual carbon carbon double bonds. For example in some embodiments an electron withdrawing group may be associated with each of the double bonds with the electron group attached to either the carbon the beta carbon or the gamma carbon of each double bond. In other embodiments some of the double bonds can have an attached electron withdrawing group and some of the double bonds will not have attached electron withdrawing groups and those double bonds that do have attached electron withdrawing groups can have electron withdrawing groups attached at either the carbon the beta carbon or the gamma carbon of each double bond.

Many unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids have been identified and are known to be naturally occurring. Such unsaturated or polyunsaturated naturally occurring fatty acids generally include an even number of carbons in their aliphatic hydrocarbon chain. For example a naturally occurring unsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acid may have 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 and so on carbons and may include omega 3 5 6 7 9 fatty acids and the like. Any such fatty acid may be useful in embodiments of the invention. The symbol is used to refer to the terminal methyl carbon of the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain. The placement of the double bond of the X fatty acid is the carbon carbon bond X number of carbons from the carbon. For example an 6 fatty acid has a double bond between the 6and 7carbons counting backward from the carbon and an 3 fatty acid has a double bond between the 3and 4carbons counting backward from the carbon. Various embodiments of the invention include nitrated 3 fatty acids including but not limited to linolenic acid alpha linolenic acid eicosapentanoic acid docosapentaenoic acid docosahexanoic acid and stearidonic acid nitrated 5 fatty acids including but not limited to myristoleic acid nitrated 6 fatty acids including but not limited to linoleic acid gamma linoleic acid dihomo gamma linoleic acid and arachidonic acid nitrated 7 fatty acids including but not limited to palmitoleic acid and nitrated 9 fatty acids including but not limited to oleic acid and erucic acid. Of course the fatty acids of the invention may also be referred to using IUPAC nomenclature in which the placement of the double bond is determined by counting from the carbon of the carboxylic acid and C X denotes the carbon in aliphatic hydrocarbons using IUPAC nomenclature wherein X is the number of the carbon counting from the carboxylic acid. Embodiments of the invention also include synthetic equivalents to naturally occurring fatty acids and derivatives thereof.

Other embodiments of the invention include unsaturated or polyunsaturated non naturally occurring fatty acids which may have an odd number of carbons such as for example 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 20 21 and so on. As in naturally occurring fatty acids the one or more double bonds associated with non naturally occurring fatty acids may be at any position along the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain and the double bonds may be in either cis or trans configuration. In yet other embodiments the non naturally occurring fatty acids may include one or more linker groups which interrupt the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain. For example in some embodiments fatty acid inhibitors may have one or more non carbon carbon linkage such as for example ester ether vinyl ether amino imine and the like at any position within the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain.

Unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids whether naturally or non naturally occurring may be further referred to base on their degree of unsaturatation. The degree of unsaturation generally refers to the number of pairs of hydrogen atoms less than the number of hydrogen on a fully saturated fatty acid. Therefore for example fully saturated fatty acid has a degree of unsaturation of 0 whereas a fatty acid having degree of saturation of 1 has 2 less hydrogen atoms associated with the aliphatic chain of the fatty acid and a fatty acid having a degree of saturation of 2 has 4 less hydrogen atoms than its fully saturated counterpart. In most cases an increase in the degree of unsaturation may indicate the presence of a double bond on the aliphatic chain however an increase in the degree of unsaturation may also indicate the presence of a ring structure that incorporates a portion of the aliphatic chain. For example the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described under Group IV below may be considered to have a degree of unsaturation of 1 if the strained heterocycle is the only moiety found on the aliphatic chain of a degree of unsaturation of greater than one if additional heterocycles double bonds activated double bonds having associated electron withdrawing groups are also present on the aliphatic chain.

The fatty acids of various embodiments may also be branched at one or more location along the hydrocarbon chain and in some embodiments each branch may include an aliphatic hydrocarbon chain of from 1 to 24 carbons 2 to 20 carbons or 4 to 18 carbons wherein each branch may have an even or odd number of carbons. The degree of branching may vary among embodiments and in some embodiments a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor may include from 0 to 6 branches along the aliphatic chain of the fatty acid. In other embodiments one or more branch of a branched chain may have additional branches. In such embodiments each branch may include one or more double bonds activated double bonds having an associated electron withdrawing group heteroatom cyclic group or heterocycle. For example in some embodiments one branch or the main aliphatic chain may include such structures and in other branches two or more branches or one or more branches and the main chain may include such structures.

In particular embodiments an unsaturated fatty acid having at least one electron withdrawing group may be a conjugated fatty acid. In such embodiments two carbon carbon double bonds in an aliphatic chain are adjacent to one another such that there is no methylene group between them. Such conjugated compounds are commonly called 1 3 dienes or conjugated fatty acids. Such 1 3 dienes may include one or more electron withdrawing groups at any of 6 positions at the 1 2 3 and or 4 positions of the 1 3 dienes and at the two carbons adjacent to the diene at the 0 and 5 positions in relation to the 1 2 3 4 method of identifying carbons in a 1 3 diene . For example one associated electron withdrawing group may be attached to any of the 6 positions identified above that is to either the 1 2 3 or 4 positions on the diene or to either of the carbons adjacent to the 1 3 diene at the 0 or 5 positions as described above . In additional embodiments two associated electron withdrawing groups could be attached to any two of the six possible positions three associated electron withdrawing groups could be attached to any two of the six possible positions four associated electron withdrawing groups could be attached to any two of the six possible positions five associated electron withdrawing groups could be attached to any two of the six possible positions and six associated electron withdrawing groups could be attached to any two of the six possible positions. In summary any configuration of electron withdrawing groups attached to any of the six positions described above in a 1 3 diene are encompassed by embodiments of the invention.

In certain embodiments the fatty acid inhibitors of the invention may undergo an isomerization following preparation such that either the cis trans configuration of the double bond the location of the double bond in the carbon chain or both may change. For example in some embodiments a fatty acid inhibitor may be prepared with a carbon carbon double bond of having an electron withdrawing group attached to a gamma carbon of a carbon carbon double bond. Following preparation the carbon carbon double bond may undergo an isomerization such that the electron withdrawing group is now conjugated with the carbon carbon double bond after isomerization. Such isomerizations may occur spontaneously at any time following preparation and may result in a composition which may have initially been prepared as including a single species of fatty acid inhibitor that subsequently includes a combination of isomers of the first prepared fatty acid inhibitor originally produced. In other embodiments a fatty acid inhibitor may be prepared having an electron withdrawing group attached to a gamma carbon of a carbon carbon double bond and this carbon carbon double bond may undergo an isomerization following administration such that a fatty acid inhibitor is produced having the electron withdrawing group is conjugated with the carbon carbon double bond.

In some embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be configured as described above may further include a second functional associated with the carbon carbon double bond and positioned at the carbon adjacent to the electron withdrawing group i.e. the beta position such that both carbons of the carbon carbon double bond are conjugated. In such embodiments the second functional group may act as a leaving group during binding thereby allowing a thiol containing amino acid to form a covalent bond with the carbon atom conjugated to the second functional group. Embodiments are not limited by the type of leaving groups. For example in various embodiments leaving groups may include but are not limited to diazonium salts .N nonaflates R OSOCF triflates OSOCF fluorosulfonates OSOF tosylates OTs mesylates OMs and similar compounds halides F Cl Br I conjugate acid of alcohols OH acyl chlorides R O Cl conjugate acid of an ethers OHR nitrates ONO phosphates OPO OH tetraalkylammonium salts NR esters OC O R acid anhydrides C O OC O R ammonium salts NH phenoxides OAr alcohols OH carboxylic acids C O OH ethers OR and esters C O OR where each R is independently hydrogen H or lower alkyl.

Without wishing to be bound by theory Group I functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors having at least one double bond with a conjugated electron withdrawing group and a conjugated leaving group may interact with a active protein to form a reversible but stable covalent bond between the carbon carbon double bond and a thiol containing amino acid in the active site of the protein as illustrated in Mechanism I 

As indicated in Mechanism I once bound the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors having a leaving group in the beta position are capable of undergoing may undergo a Michael addition with a thiol containing amino acid in the active site of the binding protein producing a covalent bond between the thiol and the beta carbon of the double bond. In some embodiments the resulting protein fatty acid inhibitor complex may undergo a reversible protonation which allows for the formation of a slowly reversible covalent bond with the thiol containing amino acid. While this interaction is not necessarily permanent it may be less passive than the interaction of a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that does not include a leaving group at the beta position. Group I functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may also undergo a fixation of the covalent bond in which the leaving group dissociates from the fatty acid inhibitor and the carbon carbon double bond reforms with the thiol of the active protein replacing the leaving group. In such embodiments the covalent bond between the thiol and the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor may be essentially irreversible and may permanently inhibit the activity of the binding protein. However slow reversal of the covalent bond is possible in the presence of water which may create a sub species that is susceptible to deprotonation and hydrolysis which may reactivate the binding protein. Such reversal may be dependent upon the arrangement of the active site of the protein and for example the accessibility water in the active site which may depend on the physical environment of the protein and or activity at other active sites on the protein. Therefore in some embodiments Group I fatty acid inhibitors may either reduce the activity of binding proteins without permanently inhibiting binding proteins by occupying the active of such proteins precluding binding of other substrates or completely inhibit or turn off activity of the binding protein by forming a permanent interaction with the active site which completely precludes binding and catalysis of other substrates. In other embodiments Group I functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may increase activation or permanently activate permanently turn on a binding protein by occupying a binding site which for example causes a conformational change in the binding protein that activates a secondary active site.

In other embodiments a leaving group may be provided in the main chain of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors at replacing a carbon directly adjacent to a carbon of the carbon carbon double bond that does not include an electron withdrawing group. For example embodiments include functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors of Formulae IV IVa V and Va 

Without wishing to be bound by theory Group II functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may form a slowly reversible covalent bond with thiol containing amino acids in the active site of a binding protein. Formation of this slowly reversible covalent bond may provide permanent or long term inhibition of action of the protein or permanent or long term activation of the protein similar to that described under Group I. The proposed mechanism of action is illustrated in Mechanism II 

As shown in Mechanism II upon binding a Michael reaction may occur between the thiol containing amino acid of the protein active site and the carbon carbon double bond of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor. In some embodiments the resulting intermediate may undergo a reversible protonation creating a reversible covalent bond. This reversible covalent bond may allow the fatty acid inhibitor to form a more permanent bond with the protein which may reduce the activity of the binding protein by limiting the availability of the active site for other substrates or the reversible covalent bond may allow for more long term or improved activation of the binding protein. In other embodiments the double bond may reform after the Michael reaction dissociating the leaving group and any portion of the fatty acid associated with the leaving from the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor and fixing the covalent bond. Because the leaving group and any portion of the fatty acid associated with the leaving group may no longer bound by the protein after fixation of the covalent bond between the thiol and the remainder of the fatty acid inhibitor it may dissociate from the complex as illustrated in Mechanism II. This may result in permanent irreversibly inhibition of the protein as the portion of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor remaining covalently bound to the protein will occupy the active site. However the covalent bond may be reversed in the presence of water which may allow for deprotonation of the complex and eventually hydrolysis of the covalent bond. After hydrolysis the fatty acid inhibitor may dissociate from the active site of the protein essentially reactivating the protein or the covalent bond may reform prolonging inhibition. Thus Group II fatty acid inhibitors binding may result in either short or long term inhibition of the binding protein.

Still other embodiments are directed to functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that may include a leaving group in the main chain of the fatty acid where the leaving group replaces a carbon flanking the carbon of the carbon carbon associated with the electron withdrawing group and one carbon removed from the carbon carbon double bond. For example in some embodiments the Group II functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be of Formulae VII VIIa VIII or VIIIa 

Without wishing to be bound by theory Group III functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may form a slowly reversible covalent bond with thiol containing amino acids in the active site of a binding protein. Formation of this slowly reversible covalent bond may provide permanent or long term inhibition of action of the protein or permanent or long term activation of the protein similar to that described under Groups I and II. The proposed mechanism of action is illustrated in Mechanism III 

As illustrated in Mechanism III a Michael addition with a thiol of a thiol containing amino acid in the active site of the binding protein may occur following binding of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor to the protein. The intermediate created by this reaction may then undergo reversible protonation that may stabilize the covalent bond reversible inhibiting the protein by delaying dissociation of the fatty acid inhibitor until the protonation is reversed and the covalent bond is resolved. In other embodiments the covalent bond may become fixed which may cause a double bond to form between the electron withdrawing group containing carbon and the intervening carbon between the electron withdrawing group and the leaving group. As a result of the carbon carbon double bond formation the bond between the leaving group and the intervening carbon may be broken and the portion of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor may become dissociated from the active site of the protein. The remaining portion of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor may remain covalently bound within the active site of the protein indefinitely. However if the active site of the protein is accessible to water or another thiol containing fatty acid is available in the active site of the protein a reversible deprotonation may occur that allows the newly formed double bond to be resolved and a subsequent hydrolysis may allow the covalent bond between the protein and the portion of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor remaining in the active site to be broken releasing the fatty acid inhibitor. Thus Group III functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors binding may result in either short or long term inhibition of the binding protein.

Some embodiments are directed to functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors in which the carbon carbon double bond associated with an electron withdrawing group is replaced by a strained heterocyclic ring. For example in some embodiments Group IV functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be of Formulae X XI XII and XIIa 

In yet other embodiments the strained heterocycle may be flanked by a carbonyl containing group such as ketone ester amide thioester and the like. For example in some embodiments the Group IV compounds may be of Formulae XIII XIV XV or XVa 

Without wishing to be bound by theory Group IV functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may form an irreversible or slowly reversible covalent bond with thiol containing amino acids in the active site of a binding protein. Formation of this slowly reversible covalent bond may provide permanent or long term inhibition of action of the protein or permanent or long term activation of the protein similar to that described under Groups I II and III. Functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors having a strained heterocycle may react with thiol containing amino acids to form a covalent bond in several ways. For example one proposed mechanism of action is illustrated in Mechanism IV 

Another proposed mechanism for action of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors including strained heterocycle is provided in Mechanism V 

For ease of understanding the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors of various embodiments have been described separately however in some embodiments fatty acid inhibitors may include more than one class of inhibitor moieties. For example embodiments include functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that incorporate any combination of Group I type inhibitor moieties a Group II type inhibitor moieties a Group III type inhibitor moieties and Group IV type inhibitor moieties. In other embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may further include electron withdrawing vinyl or electron withdrawing allylic groups such as those described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 11 568 377 and 12 433 130 which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety or any other functional groups or heteroatoms known in the art. Without wishing to be bound by theory functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors having additional functional groups outside the Group I IV type moieties described above may modify the activity of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors by for example increasing availability of the compound to target tissues and cells.

In still other embodiments the carboxy terminal end of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be modified. For example in some embodiments the fatty acid may include a glycerol associated with the carboxy terminal end of the fatty acid to create a glycerolipid and such glycerolipids may be mono di or tri glycerides wherein at least one of the fatty acids of a di or tri glyceride may be a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor and any remaining fatty acids may be a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid. Similarly in other embodiments a carbohydrate may be associated with the carboxy terminal end of a fatty acid inhibitor to form a glycolipid. In such embodiments any carbohydrate known in the art may be a carbohydrate moiety of a glycolipid including but not limited to galactose and glucose. In yet other embodiments a carbohydrate may be associated with a glyceride which is associated with the carboxy terminal end of a fatty acid inhibitor to form a glycero glycolipid which may have one or two fatty acid inhibitors associated with the glycero portion of the glycero glycolipid and in embodiments in which only one fatty acid inhibitor is associated with the glycero glycolipid the remaining position on the glycerol may include a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid or hydrogen alkyl or a functional group such as for example alcohol amine phosphate phosphonic acid thiol sulfonic acid and the like. In certain embodiments the carboxy terminal end of the fatty acid inhibitors of the invention may be associated with a phosphate to from a phospholipid. In such embodiments the phosphate may be directly associated with the fatty acid through the carboxy terminus or the phosphate may be associated with a di glyceride wherein one or two fatty acid inhibitors are attached glycerol moiety and in embodiments where only one activated the fatty acid is attached to the glycerol remaining position on the glycerol may include a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid or hydrogen alkyl or a functional group such as for example alcohol amine phosphate phosphonic acid thiol sulfonic acid and the like. In further embodiments the carboxy terminus of the fatty acid inhibitor may be associated with a cholesterol or other sterol moiety. In yet other embodiments the carboxy terminal end may be modified by the covalent attachment of a secondary active agent. In the particular embodiments carboxy terminal modifications including a glycerol may not include a nitro group. Without wishing to be bound by theory modification of the carboxy terminal end of fatty acid inhibitors may enhance partitioning of the fatty acid inhibitor after administration and may also improve resilience of the fatty acid inhibitor by inhibiting beta oxidation in mitochondria following administration.

The functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described above may be prepared as a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation. The term pharmaceutically acceptable is used herein to mean that the compound is appropriate for use in a pharmaceutical product. For example pharmaceutically acceptable cations include metallic ions and organic ions. More preferred metallic ions include but are not limited to appropriate alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts and other physiological acceptable metal ions. Exemplary ions include aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc in their usual valences. Preferred organic ions include protonated tertiary amines and quaternary ammonium cations including in part trimethylamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable acids include without limitation hydrochloric acid hydroiodic acid hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid sulfuric acid methanesulfonic acid acetic acid formic acid tartaric acid maleic acid malic acid citric acid isocitric acid succinic acid lactic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid pyruvic acid oxalacetic acid fumaric acid propionic acid aspartic acid glutamic acid benzoic acid and the like.

Isomeric and tautomeric forms of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described herein and regioisomers as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts of these compounds are also encompassed by the invention. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable salts are prepared from formic acetic propionic succinic glycolic gluconic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic glucuronic maleic fumaric pyruvic aspartic glutamic benzoic anthranilic mesylic stearic salicylic p hydroxybenzoic phenylacetic mandelic embonic pamoic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic benzenesulfonic pantothenic toluenesulfonic 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic sulfanilic cyclohexylaminosulfonic algenic .beta. hydroxybutyric galactaric and galacturonic acids.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts used in connection with the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors include metallic ion salts and organic ion salts. Exemplary metallic ion salts include but are not limited to appropriate alkali metal group Ia salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts and other physiological acceptable metal ions. Such salts can be made from the ions of aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc. Preferred organic salts can be made from tertiary amines and quaternary ammonium salts including in part trimethylamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. All of the above salts can be prepared by those skilled in the art by conventional means from the corresponding compound of the present invention.

Functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors as described in various embodiments above may be administered to individuals to treat ameliorate and or prevent a number both acute and chronic inflammatory and metabolic conditions. In particular embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be used to treat acute conditions including general inflammation autoimmune disease autoinflammatory disease arterial stenosis organ transplant rejection and burns and chronic conditions such as chronic lung injury and respiratory distress diabetes hypertension obesity arthritis neurodegenerative disorders and various skin disorders. However in other embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be used to treat any condition having symptoms including chronic or acute inflammation such as for example arthritis lupus Lyme s disease gout sepsis hyperthermia ulcers enterocolitis osteoporosis viral or bacterial infections cytomegalovirus periodontal disease glomerulonephritis sarcoidosis lung disease lung inflammation fibrosis of the lung asthma acquired respiratory distress syndrome tobacco induced lung disease granuloma formation fibrosis of the liver graft vs. host disease postsurgical inflammation coronary and peripheral vessel restenosis following angioplasty stent placement or bypass graft coronary artery bypass graft CABG acute and chronic leukemia B lymphocyte leukemia neoplastic diseases arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis myocardial inflammation psoriasis immunodeficiency disseminated intravascular coagulation systemic sclerosis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis Parkinson s disease Alzheimer s disease encephalomyelitis edema inflammatory bowel disease hyper IgE syndrome cancer metastasis or growth adoptive immune therapy reperfusion syndrome radiation burns alopecia and the like.

When administered functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may interact with a number of cellular receptors and or proteins that mediate inflammation either by inhibiting or stimulating their activity thereby inhibiting or reducing inflammation. Without wishing to be bound by theory functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may modulate important signaling activities including for example neurotransmission gene expression vascular function and inflammatory responses and chemical properties of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that may facilitate these activities include but are not limited to the strong reversible electrophilic nature of the carbon adjacent to the electron withdrawing vinyl group an ability to undergo Nef like acid base reactions to release NO an ability to partition into both hydrophobic and hydrophilic compartments and a strong affinity for G protein coupled receptors and nuclear receptors.

For example in one embodiment functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to mediate cell signaling via multiple G protein coupled receptors and nuclear receptors such as but not limited to peroxisome proliferator activated receptors PPAR including PPAR PPAR and PPAR . PPAR is a nuclear receptor that is expressed throughout an organism including in monocytes macrophages neutrophils endothelial cells adipocytes epithelial cells hepatocytes mesangial cells vascular smooth muscle cells neuronal cells and when activated induces transcription of a number of target genes. Activation of PPAR has been shown to play various roles in regulating tissue homeostasis including for example increasing insulin sensitivity suppress chronic inflammatory processes reduce circulating free fatty acid levels correct endothelial dysfunction reduce fatty streak formation delay plaque formation limit blood vessel wall thickening and enhance plaque stabilization and regression. The fatty acid inhibitors embodied herein may perform each of these functions associated with PPAR activation.

Moreover functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may perform these functions without significantly altering normal cellular process. For example in one embodiment a fatty acid inhibitor may be administered to treat hypertension by lowering blood pressure to normal levels without reducing the blood pressure of the individual below normal levels even if the fatty acid inhibitor is over administered. Thus without wishing to be bound by theory the fatty acid inhibitors may provide treatment of an individual without the negative affects associated with over administration or over treatment using traditional medications.

Activation of PPAR has been shown to be induced either directly or in part by a locking reaction in which a critical thiol in a highly conserved cysteine Cys 285 of human PPAR which is located in a ligand binding domain of PPAR. Partial activation of PPAR has been shown to occur when relatively high concentrations of known thiol reactive compounds such as 15 deoxy prostaglandin J 15 d PGJ are administered. Without wishing to be bound by theory fatty acid inhibitors may bind to PPAR covalently at the reactive thiol in the ligand binding domain of PPAR. Moreover fatty acid inhibitors may induce a conformational change in PPAR. More specifically fatty acid inhibitor binding may result in the C terminus of the ligand binding domain helix 12 to adopt an active conformation that may promote a beneficial pattern of co repressor release and co activator recruitment. Thus fatty acid inhibitors may enhance PPAR activation and transcription of PPAR regulated genes beyond that of known PPAR activating compounds.

In addition to activation of PPAR fatty acid inhibitor administration may be useful for activating a number of other factors important for cell signaling. For example in one embodiment fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to induce gene expression and tissue activity of heme oxygenase 1 HO 1 which has been shown to mediate adaptive and protective responses during inflammation and activation of an adaptive or protective inflammatory response mediated by HO may be useful in treating inflammatory diseases such as but not limited to atheroscelrosis acute renal failure vascular restinosis transplant rejection and sepsis. In another embodiment fatty acid inhibitors may induce a reversible post translational modification of proteins such as for example glutathione GSH and glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH by covalently binding to catalytic cysteines on such proteins. Without wishing to be bound by theory the covelent modification of these proteins by fatty acid inhibitors may increase the hydrophobicity of these proteins inducing translocation of to membranes and suggests a role for redox regulation of enzyme function cell signaling and protein trafficking. In yet another embodiment fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to repress NF B dependent gene expression and endothelial tumor necrosis factor induced expression of vascular cell adhesion molecules in monocytes and macrophages which results in inhibition of rolling and adhesion during inflammation. Thus fatty acid inhibitors may be useful for treating general inflammation resulting from surgery injury or infection. In a further embodiment fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to limit tissue inflammatory injury and inhibit the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells by increasing cellular levels of nuclear factor erythroid 2 related factor 2 Nrf 2 which may be useful in the treatment of a number of vascular diseases. In some embodiments fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to modify the activity of transient receptor potential TRP channels such as TRPA1 and TRPV1 and may be capable of modifying pain and inflammatory signaling. In other embodiments fatty acid inhibitors may be used to induce heat shock factor HSF proteins and inhibit protein tyrosine phosphatases PTPs and in still other embodiments fatty acid inhibitors may be administered to activate mitogen activated protein kinases MAP kinases .

In a still further embodiment functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be useful for ischemic preconditioning. For example nitrated fatty acids produced by mitochondria in cells under ischemic conditions cause a number of physiological changes within the cell that increases cell survival under ischemic conditions. By providing fatty acid inhibitors to an individual similar ischemic preconditioning may be achieved allowing for improved survival of for example cardiac tissue under ischemic conditions or organs being preserved for optimizing viability and function upon transplantation.

Because functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors form a more stable interaction within the active site of the target protein than the native substrate the beneficial effects of functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors described above may be observed following a single administration of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor and may continue to be observed for a period of from several days to weeks or months. Additionally the stability of the covalent bond formed with the active site thiol containing amino acid may affect the amount of fatty acid inhibitor necessary to elicit a response. For example Group IV functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors which form a permanent covalent bond with an active site thiol containing amino acid may be permanently activate or inhibit the target protein and the effect of administration such a fatty acid inhibitor may be reduced only based on turnover of the target protein. Thus less frequent and lower doses of the functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors of embodiments may be necessary to produce the desired effect than other forms of treatment.

The functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors of embodiments can be administered in any conventional manner by any route where they are active. Administration can be systemic or local. For example administration can be but is not limited to parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal or ocular routes or intravaginally by inhalation by depot injections or by implants. In certain embodiments the administration may be parenteral or intravenous all in the presence or absence of stabilizing additives that favor extended systemic uptake tissue half life and intracellular delivery. Thus modes of administration for the compounds of the present invention either alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals can be injectable including short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly . In some embodiments an injectable formulation including a fatty acid inhibitor may be deposited to a site of injury or inflammation such as for example the site of a surgical incision or a site of inflammation due to arthroscopy angioplasty stent placement by pass surgery and so on.

In certain other embodiments functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be applied locally as a salve or lotion applied directly to an area of inflammation. For example in some embodiments a lotion or salve including fatty acid inhibitors of the invention may be prepared and applied to a burn radiation burn site of dermal disorder edema arthritic joint or the like.

Various embodiments are also directed to method for administering functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors. Specific modes of administration may vary and may depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen may be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered will depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular animal treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that dosages may be determined with guidance for example from Goodman Goldman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics Ninth Edition 1996 Appendix II pp. 1707 1711 or from Goodman Goldman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics Tenth Edition 2001 Appendix II pp. 475 493 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. With respect to conventional prenylation enzyme inhibitors guidance may be obtained from art recognized dosage amounts as described for example by J. E. Karp et al. Blood 97 11 3361 3369 2001 and A. A. Adjei et al. Cancer Research 60 1871 1877 2000 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In various embodiments an effective amount of a functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitor delivered during each administration cycle may range from about 10 mg m day to about 1000 mg m day. In some embodiments an effective amount may be about 20 mg m day to about 700 mg m day and in others an effective amount may be about 30 mg m day to about 600 mg m day. In particular embodiments an effective amount may be about 50 mg m day about 400 mg m day about 500 mg m day or about 600 mg m day. In yet other embodiments an effective amount of a fatty acid inhibitor may vary as treatment progresses. For example a dosage regimen may be increased or decreased as treatment proceeds through administration cycles or the daily dosage may increase or decrease throughout administration. In additional embodiments greater than 1000 mg m day may be administered because even high doses of fatty acid inhibitor are generally tolerable to the patient and may not produce undesired physiological effects.

In some embodiments the dosage regimen as described above may be combined with a secondary form of treatment or a secondary agent

The fatty acid inhibitors of various embodiments may be prepared by any method known in the art. For example in one embodiment a fatty acid inhibitor may be prepared by 

ii contacting the intermediate resulting from step a with a reagent or reactant that can introduce an electron withdrawing group and

Without wishing to be bound by theory a selenium compound such as for example PhSeBr PhSeCl PhSeOCCF PhSeOH PhSeCN and the like may react with one or more carbon carbon double bond of the unsaturated fatty acid to form a three membered ring intermediate on the fatty acid in a reaction that may be facilitated by the mercuric salt such as for example HgCl Hg NO Hg OAc and the like as depicted in step I of the reaction below 

The source of the electron withdrawing group may be any compound known in the art that is capable of generating an electron withdrawing group that can be incorporated into the fatty acid inhibitor such as for example NaNO AgNO HSOOH and the like. Without wishing to be bound by theory the electron withdrawing group X in the reaction scheme above may become joined to the hydrocarbon chain by displacing for example the bromine that was associated with the selenium compound as depicted in step II of the reaction scheme provided above. It is noted that the electron withdrawing groups may also react directly with the three membered ring episelenonium ion shown in step I at the position where the bromine is shown as attacking. Finally as depicted in step III of the reaction scheme provided above the oxidizing agent forms a reactive selenium oxo functional group which undergo molecular rearrangement and elimination of ZSeOH leading to formation of the electron withdrawing vinyl depicted as a nitro vinyl on the hydrocarbon chain. Z in the reaction scheme above may be any number of groups. For example in certain embodiments Z may be a phenyl group.

In other embodiments a fatty acid inhibitor may be prepared using a modified aldol condensation such as the Henry reaction. A review of the Henry reaction and methods related to the Henry method can be found for example in Frederick A. Luzzio F. A. The Henry reaction recent examples Tetrahedron 2001 57 915 945 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Known variations of the Henry reaction may also be useful in preparing fatty acid inhibitors and all such methods are embodied herein. For example in some embodiments variations of the Henry reaction including but not limited to the Wittig like variation of the Henry reaction the Horner Wadsworth Emmons variation of the Henry reaction and the Peterson olefination variation of the Henry reaction. In such methods double bonds are formed using the assistance of groups temporarily included in the reactants but that do are not included in the product. For example the Wittig reaction uses phosphorus ylides to aid in the condensation reactions with carbonyls and in the dehydration reaction to form alkenes. The Horner Wadsworth Emmons reaction uses phosphonate esters and the Peterson olefination uses silicon reagents for the condensation and dehydration steps. A review of major alkene forming name reactions by reaction of a functionalized reagent with a carbonyl compound including the Wittig reaction Horner Wittig Horner Wadsworth Emmons can be found for example in Peterson Johnson and Julia reactions. Blakemore P. R. The modified Julia olefination alkene synthesis via the condensation of metallated heteroarylalkylsulfones with carbonyl compounds 1 2002 2563 2585 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The Henry nitro aldol reaction is the condensation of a nitroalkane with either an aldehyde or a ketone carbonyl containing compound to form a nitro aldo product with the newly formed beta hydroxynitroalkyl group. Dehydration loss of water from nitro aldol products leads to the formation of nitroalkenes. There are many methods to perform the nitroalkane carbonyl condensation reaction to make nitro aldols and there are many methods for the dehydration reaction to form nitroalkenes. Examples of such methods can be found in for example Woodcock S. R. Marwitz A. J. V. Bruno P. Branchaud B. P. Synthesis of Nitrolipids. All Four Possible Diastereomers of Nitrooleic Acids E and Z 9 and 10 Nitro octadec 9 enoic Acids 2006 8 3931 3934 which provides one regioisomer and usually one of two possible alkene cis trans or Z E diastereomers in high purity and usually in high chemical yield which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entireties.

Enantioselective Henry reactions are also possible and may require the use of one or more catalysts for the reaction and embodiments of the invention include the use of such methods to prepare stereospecific isomers of nitroalkenes. For example Boruwa J. Gogoi N. Saikia P. P. and Barua N. C. Catalytic Asymmetric Henry Reaction 2006 17 3315 3326 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes methods for preparing stereospecific isomers of nitoralkenes.

In still other embodiments alkenes olefins may be prepared by metal mediated cross coupling reactions joining together of two molecules to make one new molecule by condensation onto a carbonyl compound. Such methods have not been applied to the formation of nitroalkenes or to the formation of other alkenes with electron withdrawing substituents but such methods could be adapted to the synthesis of alkenes with electron withdrawing substituents. For example named cross coupling reactions such as the Heck Suzuki and Stille coupling along with others may be used to prepare fatty acid inhibitors. Such methods are well known in the art. A review of such reactions of can be found in for example Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions de Meijere Armin Diederich Francois eds. Wiley VCH Weinheim 2004. XXII ISBN 10 3 527 30518 1 and ISBN 13 978 3 527 30518 6 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Examples of various embodiments of methods for preparing fatty acid inhibitors may at least include the following steps 

i combining a first component at least including an aliphatic hydrocarbon having an electron withdrawing group at one end with an second component including aliphatic hydrocarbon chain having an aldehyde at one end in the presence of a base to form a first intermediate and

In reaction schemes I and II the variable X represents an electron withdrawing group and can be any electron withdrawing group discussed herein above or known in the art. The variables n and m represent a number of carbon atoms in the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain and n and m can be any number. For example the aliphatic hydrocarbon chains of any of the starting compound may be from 2 20 carbons in length. Moreover the position of the double bond and the arrangement of the electron withdrawing group in relation to the double bond may be determined specifically and particular fatty acid inhibitors may be created in high yield. For example an oleic acid may be produced by the reaction of scheme I by combining a first substrate where m is 10 and a second substrate where n is 2.

Any fatty acid inhibitor may be produced using the method presented above and both naturally occurring and non naturally occurring analogs may be synthesized. For example synthesis of an exemplary nitrated fatty acids may be produced as illustrated in the general synthetic method is shown in scheme III below.

Group I functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be formed by any method known in the art. For example in some embodiments an activated fatty acid prepared as described above may be further modified as describe in scheme IV 

Heteroatom containing fatty acid inhibitors such as those of Group II and Group III fatty acid inhibitors may be prepared using the same methodology as described above for introducing an electron withdrawing group to an unsaturated fatty acid. For example in some embodiments an unsaturated aliphatic chain containing toluene sulfonate may be combined with a mercaptoalkanoic acid such as for example an 2 mercaptoacetic acid or 3 mercaptopropionic acid or an hydroxyalkanoic acid such as for example 2 hydroxyacetic acid or 3 hydroxypropionic acid in an appropriate solvent to produce a thioalkanoic acid or oxyalkanoic acid covalently attached to the unsaturated or polyunsaturated aliphatic chain and in other embodiments an unsaturated aliphatic chain containing a halogen such as for example a Cl or Br end group be combined with a mercaptoalkanoic acid such as for example 2 mercaptoacetic acid or 3 mercaptopropionic acid or an hydroxyalkanoic acid such as for example 2 hydroxyacetic acid or 3 hydroxypropionic acid in an appropriate solvent to produce a thioalkanoic acid or oxyalkanoic acid covalently attached to the unsaturated or polyunsaturated aliphatic chain. In still other embodiments a sulfinylalkanoic acid may be prepared by drying a thioalkanoic acid prepared as described above and maintaining the dried product in an oxygen rich environment for a several days. In such embodiments an electron withdrawing group may be introduced onto the unsaturated or polyunsaturated aliphatic chain by any of the methods provided above either before or after formation of the thioalkanoic acid oxyalkanoic acid or sulfinylalkanoic acid.

In certain embodiments heteroatom containing functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors can be prepared as illustrated in scheme V 

In other embodiments heteroatom containing functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may also be created by the method illustrated in scheme VI 

Further embodiments are directed to methods for preparing functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors that include a strained heterocylic group such as those of Group IV. For example in some embodiments such functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be prepared as illustrated in scheme VII 

In other embodiments Groups IV functionally enhanced fatty acid inhibitors may be prepared as illustrated in scheme VIII 

In some embodiments alkyl chains associated with the fatty acid inhibitors may contain additional functional groups other than double bonds which may or may not be associated with a carbon carbon double bond heteratom or strained heterocycle either existing before the reaction is carried out. For example individual Rand Rgroups shown in Scheme III may include functional groups such as but not limited to alkynes as a part of the chain with the alkyne in the chain alcohols aldehyde carbonyls ketone carbonyls derivatives of carbonyl aldehydes and ketones such as oximes hydrazones and any other carbonyl derivative known in the art amines amines with other groups known in the art attached to the amine thiols thiols with other groups known in the art attached to the thiols any other functional group known in the art either as the simple functional group or the functional group with another chain or group attached to it. Such functional groups may be attached to a carbon in the linear or branched chain. Without wishing to be bound by theory the addition of additional functional groups may alter the targeting and bioavailability of the fatty acid inhibitors of embodiments such that specific cells or targets it within cells can be targeted.

In yet other embodiments molecules may contain more than one carbon chain with two or more carbon chains joined together by a non carbon group and in some embodiments each of the carbon chains can be branched or linear. For example in certain embodiments non carbon functional groups that can join two or more carbon chains together include but are not limited to those in the very common functional groups listed below 

In addition to the common non carbon multivalent elements found in organics compounds and shown above oxygen nitrogen sulfur other functional groups known in the art and based on any other non carbon multivalent element may be used in embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments any of the non carbon chains described above could be incorporated into fatty acid inhibitors using the general synthetic approach shown in III above in which the non carbon chains are in R Ror both.

Pharmaceutical formulations containing the compounds of the invention and a suitable carrier can be in various forms including but not limited to solids solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids and dry powders including an effective amount of a fatty acid inhibitor of the invention. It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers antioxidants preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties can be consulted.

The compounds of the present invention can be formulated for parenteral or intravenous administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Injectable preparations for example sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids diluents such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables. Additional fatty acids diluents that may be useful in embodiments of the invention include for example one or more of stearic acid metallic stearate sodium stearyl fumarate fatty acid fatty alcohol fatty acid ester glyceryl behenate mineral oil vegetable oil paraffin leucine silica silicic acid talc propylene glycol fatty acid ester polyethoxylated castor oil polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyalkylene glycol polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty ester polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether polyethoxylated sterol polyethoxylated castor oil polyethoxylated vegetable oil and the like. In some embodiments the fatty acid diluent may be a mixture of fatty acids. In some embodiments the fatty acid may be a fatty acid ester a sugar ester of fatty acid a glyceride of fatty acid or an ethoxylated fatty acid ester and in other embodiments the fatty acid diluent may be a fatty alcohol such as for example stearyl alcohol lauryl alcohol palmityl alcohol palmitolyl acid cetyl alcohol capryl alcohol caprylyl alcohol oleyl alcohol linolenyl alcohol arachidonic alcohol behenyl alcohol isobehenyl alcohol selachyl alcohol chimyl alcohol and linoleyl alcohol and the like and mixtures thereof.

Other embodiments of the invention include fatty acid inhibitor prepared as described above which are formulated as a solid dosage form for oral administration including capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such embodiments the active compound may be admixed with one or more inert diluent such as sucrose lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise as in normal practice additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents and can additionally be prepared with enteric coatings.

Preparation of a fatty acid inhibitor in solid dosage form may vary. For example in one embodiment a liquid or gelatin formulation of the fatty acid inhibitor may be prepared by combining the fatty acid inhibitor with one or more fatty acid diluent such as those described above and adding a thickening agent to the liquid mixture to form a gelatin. The gelatin may then be encapsulated in unit dosage form to form a capsule. In another exemplary embodiment an oily preparation of a fatty acid inhibitor prepared as described above may be lyophilized to for a solid that may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier or diluent to form a tablet and in yet another embodiment the fatty acid inhibitor of an oily preparation may be crystallized to from a solid which may be combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier or diluent to form a tablet.

Further embodiments which may be useful for oral administration of fatty acid inhibitors include liquid dosage forms. In such embodiments a liquid dosage may include a pharmaceutically acceptable emulsion solution suspension syrup and elixir containing inert diluents commonly used in the art such as water. Such compositions may also comprise adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents and sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

In still further embodiments fatty acid inhibitors of the invention can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Depot injections can be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

Other suitable diluents for injectable formulations include but are not limited to those described below 

Vegetable oil As used herein the term vegetable oil refers to a compound or mixture of compounds formed from ethoxylation of vegetable oil wherein at least one chain of polyethylene glycol is covalently bound to the vegetable oil. In some embodiments the fatty acids has between about twelve carbons to about eighteen carbons. In some embodiments the amount of ethoxylation can vary from about 2 to about 200 about 5 to 100 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 60 or about 12 to about 18 of ethylene glycol repeat units. The vegetable oil may be hydrogenated or unhydrogenated. Suitable vegetable oils include but are not limited to castor oil hydrogenated castor oil sesame oil corn oil peanut oil olive oil sunflower oil safflower oil soybean oil benzyl benzoate sesame oil cottonseed oil and palm oil. Other suitable vegetable oils include commercially available synthetic oils such as but not limited to Miglyol 810 and 812 available from Dynamit Nobel Chemicals Sweden Neobee M5 available from Drew Chemical Corp. Alofine available from Jarchem Industries the Lubritab series available from JRS Pharma the Sterotex available from Abitec Corp. Softisan 154 available from Sasol Croduret available from Croda Fancol available from the Fanning Corp. Cutina HR available from Cognis Simulsol available from CJ Petrow EmCon CO available from Amisol Co. Lipvol CO SES and HS K available from Lipo and Sterotex HM available from Abitec Corp. . Other suitable vegetable oils including sesame castor corn and cottonseed oils include those listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Suitable polyethoxylated vegetable oils include but are not limited to Cremaphor EL or RH series available from BASF Emulphor EL 719 available from Stepan products and Emulphor EL 620P available from GAF .

Mineral oils As used herein the term mineral oil refers to both unrefined and refined light mineral oil. Suitable mineral oils include but are not limited to the Avatech grades available from Avatar Corp. Drakeol grades available from Penreco Sirius grades available from Shell and the Citation grades available from Avater Corp. .

Castor oils As used herein the term castor oil refers to a compound formed from the ethoxylation of castor oil wherein at least one chain of polyethylene glycol is covalently bound to the castor oil. The castor oil may be hydrogenated or unhydrogenated. Synonyms for polyethoxylated castor oil include but are not limited to polyoxyl castor oil hydrogenated polyoxyl castor oil mcrogolglyceroli ricinoleas macrogolglyceroli hydroxystearas polyoxyl 35 castor oil and polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil. Suitable polyethoxylated castor oils include but are not limited to the Nikkol HCO series available from Nikko Chemicals Co. Ltd. such as Nikkol HCO 30 HC 40 HC 50 and HC 60 polyethylene glycol 30 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 40 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 50 hydrogenated castor oil and polyethylene glycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil Emulphor EL 719 castor oil 40 mole ethoxylate available from Stepan Products the Cremophore series available from BASF which includes Cremophore RH40 RH60 and EL35 polyethylene glycol 40 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil and polyethylene glycol 35 hydrogenated castor oil respectively and the Emulgin RO and HRE series available from Cognis PharmaLine . Other suitable polyoxyethylene castor oil derivatives include those listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Sterol As used herein the term sterol refers to a compound or mixture of compounds derived from the ethoxylation of sterol molecule. Suitable polyethoyxlated sterols include but are not limited to PEG 24 cholesterol ether Solulan C 24 available from Amerchol PEG 30 cholestanol Nikkol DHC available from Nikko Phytosterol GENEROL series available from Henkel PEG 25 phyto sterol Nikkol BPSH 25 available from Nikko PEG 5 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 5 available from Nikko PEG 10 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 10 available from Nikko PEG 20 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 20 available from Nikko and PEG 30 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 30 available from Nikko . As used herein the term PEG refers to polyethylene glycol.

Polyethylene glycol As used herein the term polyethylene glycol or PEG refers to a polymer containing ethylene glycol monomer units of formula O CH CH . Suitable polyethylene glycols may have a free hydroxyl group at each end of the polymer molecule or may have one or more hydroxyl groups etherified with a lower alkyl e.g. a methyl group. Also suitable are derivatives of polyethylene glycols having esterifiable carboxy groups. Polyethylene glycols useful in the present invention can be polymers of any chain length or molecular weight and can include branching. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 9000. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 5000. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 900. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is about 400. Suitable polyethylene glycols include but are not limited to polyethylene glycol 200 polyethylene glycol 300 polyethylene glycol 400 polyethylene glycol 600 and polyethylene glycol 900. The number following the dash in the name refers to the average molecular weight of the polymer. In some embodiments the polyethylene glycol is polyethylene glycol 400. Suitable polyethylene glycols include but are not limited to the Carbowax and Carbowax Sentry series available from Dow the Lipoxol series available from Brenntag the Lutrol series available from BASF and the Pluriol series available from BASF .

Propylene glycol fatty acid ester As used herein the term propylene glycol fatty acid ester refers to an monoether or diester or mixtures thereof formed between propylene glycol or polypropylene glycol and a fatty acid. Fatty acids that are useful for deriving propylene glycol fatty alcohol ethers include but are not limited to those defined herein. In some embodiments the monoester or diester is derived from propylene glycol. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 1 to about 200 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the polypropylene glycol portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 100 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 4 to about 50 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 4 to about 30 oxypropylene units. Suitable propylene glycol fatty acid esters include but are not limited to propylene glycol laurates Lauroglycol FCC and 90 available from Gattefosse propylene glycol caprylates Capryol PGMC and 90 available from Gatefosse and propylene glycol dicaprylocaprates Labrafac PG available from Gatefosse .

Stearoyl macrogol glyceride Stearoyl macrogol glyceride refers to a polyglycolized glyceride synthesized predominately from stearic acid or from compounds derived predominately from stearic acid although other fatty acids or compounds derived from other fatty acids may used in the synthesis as well. Suitable stearoyl macrogol glycerides include but are not limited to Gelucire 50 13 available from Gattefosse .

In some embodiments the diluent component comprises one or more of mannitol lactose sucrose maltodextrin sorbitol xylitol powdered cellulose microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethylcellulose carboxyethylcellulose methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose methylhydroxyethylcellulose starch sodium starch glycolate pregelatinized starch a calcium phosphate a metal carbonate a metal oxide or a metal aluminosilicate.

Exemplary excipients or carriers for use in solid and or liquid dosage forms include but are not limited to 

Sorbitol Suitable sorbitols include but are not limited to PharmSorbidex E420 available from Cargill Liponic 70 NC and 76 NC available from Lipo Chemical Neosorb available from Roquette Partech SI available from Merck and Sorbogem available from SPI Polyols .

Starch sodium starch glycolate and pregelatinized starch include but are not limited to those described in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Disintegrant The disintegrant may include one or more of croscarmellose sodium carmellose calcium crospovidone alginic acid sodium alginate potassium alginate calcium alginate an ion exchange resin an effervescent system based on food acids and an alkaline carbonate component clay talc starch pregelatinized starch sodium starch glycolate cellulose floc carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose calcium silicate a metal carbonate sodium bicarbonate calcium citrate or calcium phosphate.

Still further embodiments of the invention include fatty acid inhibitors administered in combination with other active such as for example adjuvants protease inhibitors or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein.

