---

title: System and method for dynamically managing connections using a coverage database
abstract: Techniques to dynamically manage wireless connections using a coverage database are described. For example, a mobile computing device may comprise a connection management module operative to dynamically select a wireless connection technology based on a location of the mobile computing device and information from a coverage database, and to initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless connection technology. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08588807&OS=08588807&RS=08588807
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08588807
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth. In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing such an array of functionality in a single device provides users with a variety of options in selecting appropriate wireless communications technologies to perform wireless communications tasks. When communicating it is advantageous to select a wireless communications technology based on device network or other conditions to improve performance and user experience. As a result it is desirable to enhance the dynamic selection of wireless communications technologies. For example it may be advantageous to dynamically select a wireless communication technology using a coverage database and a location of the device. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve the selection and management of wireless connections.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to connection management techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to dynamic connection management techniques for a mobile computing device based on system network or other parameters including information from a coverage database and information regarding one or more locations of a mobile computing device.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a connection management module. In various embodiments the connection management module may be operative to dynamically select a wireless transceiver or wireless connection technology based on a location of the mobile computing device and information from a coverage database and to initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless connection technology. Examples of information from the coverage database may include one or more system or network parameters including but not limited to network availability signal quality system power system load system memory connection speed type of connection duration of connection cost of connection carrier roaming or quality of service each of which may be available for one or more locations for example. The terms wireless transceiver and wireless connection technology are interchangeable as used hereinafter.

Dynamically selecting one of a plurality of wireless transceivers or connection technologies for initiating a connection may provide several advantages. For example by enabling dynamic selection a user may enjoy the benefit of continually establishing connections based on cost quality location time system resources or any number of other factors at any time without unnecessarily interacting with the mobile computing device or specifically selecting a connection technology each time a connection is desired. If a user wishes to place a telephone call for example it may be advantageous for the mobile computing device to automatically and or dynamically determine which available connection technology would be most efficient and or cost effective given the current location of the mobile computing device. For example if the mobile computing device is in a location where a Wireless Fidelity WiFi connection is available it may be advantageous to use the WiFi connection technology to establish the call to conserve the user s wireless minutes associated with their calling plan. If the above described user were to change locations for example it may be advantageous for the mobile computing device to automatically switch to a cellular circuit switching connection if the WiFi connection is no longer available. In some embodiments it may also be advantageous to select the best of the available connection technologies. For example if a cellular circuit switching connection is desired and several different cellular circuit switching connections are available e.g. through different carriers etc. the best connection may be selected regardless of roaming or any other factor. Limiting user interaction in the dynamic selection monitoring and updating of wireless connections may improve user experience and system and network performance. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Pre smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include a processor coupled to the connection management module in some embodiments. The processor may be operative to execute the connection management module . The mobile computing device may further include a memory coupled to the processor . The memory may be operative to store the connection management module . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store a connection management module in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide dynamic connection management operations for the mobile computing device . Although the connection management module is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that connection management module may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although connection management module is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for connection management module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may include one or more modules such as transceiver connection technology modules and or antennas arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links. Examples of a wireless communication links may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In the latter case the wireless nodes may include one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transmitter receivers transceivers radios chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth. In one embodiment certain devices may include antenna arrays of multiple antennas to implement various adaptive antenna techniques and spatial diversity techniques. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments connection management module may be configured to and or operative to dynamically select a wireless connection technology based on a location of the mobile computing device and information from a coverage database and to initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless connection technology. For example mobile computing device may have the capability of establishing different types of wireless connections for different purposes. In some embodiments a connection for establishing a telephone call or voice connection with a target device using one or more of cellular circuit switching Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP switching over a wireless local area network a wireless metropolitan area network or any other suitable connection technology may be possible. In some embodiments mobile computing device may also have the capability of establishing a data connection using cellular circuit switching or switching over a wireless local area network a wireless metropolitan area network or any other suitable connection technology. While a limited number of connection technologies for a limited number of uses are described herein for purposes of illustration it should be understood that any suitable connection technology wireless communication technology or standard could be used to establish and type of wireless connection and still fall within the described embodiments.

In some embodiments the dynamic selection of a connection technology by the connection management module may be based on a location of the mobile computing device and information from a coverage database. For example connection management module may be configured to determine the location of the mobile computing device or receive the location from location module determine a desired type of wireless connection compare one or more wireless connection technologies that provide the desired type of wireless connection using information from the coverage database and the location of the mobile computing device and select a wireless connection technology based on the comparison. In various embodiments the location module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS compass cellular triangulation logic or any other suitable device or logic operative to determine a location of the mobile computing device .

In various embodiments the coverage database may comprise or include information for one or more wireless connection technologies the information comprising one or more of network parameters system parameters network availability signal quality signal strength connection speed type of connection duration of connection cost of connection or roaming associated with the connection. In some embodiments the coverage database may comprise a list database program archive or other data store containing information about wireless connection technologies in one or more locations. For example a coverage database may include information regarding types of connections available carriers for each connection and signal strength of each connection for any number of wireless connection technologies at a particular location.

The coverage database may comprise a local coverage database that is part of mobile computing device and or a remote coverage database that is part of a remote device that is in or is capable of being in wireless communication with mobile computing device in some embodiments. In various embodiments local coverage database may be part of or separate from memory and may contain coverage information that is received from remote coverage database synchronized with remote coverage database or is preloaded on mobile computing device .

In various embodiments remote device may comprise a wireless communication device similar to mobile computing device . For example remote device may comprise a second mobile computing device a router a node B cellular interface gateway switch or other network device capable of wirelessly communicating with mobile computing device . In some embodiments remote coverage database may comprise or contain coverage information that is controlled loaded and or managed by a carrier or service provider for example. The coverage database referred to throughout may comprise the local coverage database the remote coverage database or a combination and or synchronization of both the local coverage database and the remote coverage database . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the coverage database may be populated with information provided by a network service provider information from a community of users or the information that is learned by each device over time through use in a variety of locations. The information in the coverage database may map a given location to coverage information for different services carriers or wireless connection technologies at that location. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments the location of the mobile computing device may comprise a current location. For example connection management module or any other suitable module such as a location module may determine the current location of the mobile computing device and may select a wireless connection technology to meet current wireless connection requirements for an application of the mobile computing device. In some embodiments the current wireless connection requirements may be based on the requirements of one or more active applications or based on user requests. For example in one embodiment a telephone application may receive information indicating that the users wishes to initiate a wireless telephone call. In this example connection management module may evaluate information from the coverage database to determine which of any available wireless connection technologies will best serve the needs of establishing the requested telephone call.

In various embodiments the location may comprise one or more anticipated locations of the mobile computing device. In some embodiments the connection management module or any other suitable module may be operative to estimate the one or more anticipated locations of the mobile computing device using one or more of a global positioning system GPS a compass a GPS history a known destination location or address or a direction of movement of the mobile computing device . For example mobile computing device may include a GPS module operative to report a current location of the mobile computing device to the connection management module and to also report one or more anticipated future locations of the mobile computing device based on an address entered by the user for use in determining directions to a known location.

In some embodiments the connection management module may be operative to select a wireless connection technology to meet the current wireless connection requirements and prior to arrival at the one or more anticipated locations to send or receive data for an application that would require a wireless data connection at the one or more anticipated locations if a limited or no wireless data connection is or will be available at the one or more anticipated locations. For example the connection management module may use information from a coverage database that includes information for each anticipated location or multiple coverage databases to determine what type and quality of connections will be available at each location. If for example the coverage database indicates that one or more anticipated locations do not include an appropriate wireless connection technology signal strength or other parameter to meet the needs of an active application connection management module may send and or receive information that the application will use when the mobile computing device arrives at the deficient anticipated location prior to the arrival at the location.

In various embodiments the application may comprise a global position system GPS application and the connection management module may be operative to download prior to arrival at the one or more anticipated locations map information to be used by the GPS application at the one or more anticipated locations. In some embodiments the application may comprise a multimedia application and the connection management module may be operative to download prior to arrival at the one or more anticipated locations multimedia information to be used by the multimedia application at the one or more anticipated locations. While a limited number of applications wireless connections technologies network parameters and other factors are described herein for purposes of illustration it should be understood that any factor information application connections technology or other parameter could be used to assist in the dynamic selection of a connection technology and still fall within the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to execute an algorithm to generate an expected quality of service QoS or service matrix for each connection technology at one or more locations and select a connection technology based on the expected QoS or switching matrix. For example the algorithm may include any of the above or any other factors relevant to establishing a wireless connection using one of a plurality of available connection technologies . In some embodiments the expected QoS and or service matrix may be based on one or more cost metrics or performance metrics for each available connection technology . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to automatically initiate the connection with the one or more target devices using the dynamically selected connection technology. For example a user may enable the dynamic selection using the connection management module as a system preference or application and may optionally enter preferences regarding connection technologies and connections during a setup process. After being enabled the dynamic selection and automatic connection process may continue with limited or no user interaction until the feature is disabled or otherwise disconnected.

In some embodiments dynamic selection and automatic connection initiation by the connection management module may be a default feature that is implemented when a device is activated and may optionally be deactivated by a user. Making the dynamic selection and automatic connection a default operation may result in a user never needing to change any preferences regarding wireless connections in some embodiments.

The connection management preference application may comprise one or more visible user interfaces for ease of use in some embodiments. For example the application may comprise a simple interface allowing a user to enable or disable the dynamic connection selection feature and to select preferences for establishing connections. Preferences may include for example ranking of items by importance to the user such as cost quality processing impact or any other factor. In some embodiments an underlying or hidden layer may be configured for decision making. For example the algorithm described above may comprise the underlying layer.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to monitor the selected connection technology and one or more non selected connection technologies after a connection has been established. For example mobile computing device may establish a connection with a target device using a dynamically selected connection technology and the connection management module may thereafter continue to monitor to the established connection as well as other available connections. In some embodiments the connection management module may be configured to automatically perform a handoff to one of the one or more non selected connection technologies based on changes in system network or other parameters. For example if the connection management module determines that a non selected connection technology is now more advantageous than the currently implemented connection technology a handoff may occur. The handoff may be transparent to the user in some embodiments in that the handoff occurs in the background without dropping an existing call or data connection for example.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments a request to initiate a wireless connection may be received at . For example a user may initiate a wireless telephone call using mobile computing device in an effort to establish a wireless telephone connection with a user of a target device or a user may request an email application to check for current email using a data connection. At a required type of wireless connection may be determined in some embodiments. For example connection management module may execute an algorithm or otherwise determine what type of wireless connection is required or acceptable to perform the task s associated with the requested wireless connection. In some embodiments a current location may be determined at . For example mobile computing device may include a GPS or other location capable device that reports the current location of the mobile computing device to the connection management module .

At a determination may be made as to whether the connection is needed for only the current location in some embodiments. For example connection management module may determine based on the type of connection requested the type of active application requiring a connection the type of data transfer or information about movement or potential movement of mobile computing device whether or not the requested wireless connection will be required only at the current location of the mobile computing device.

In some embodiments if the connection is only needed for the current location connection information for the required type of wireless connection at the current location may be obtained from a coverage database at . For example connection management module may determine that the current type of required wireless connection is a cellular connection and may obtain information for any available cellular services in the area of the current location. At the available wireless connections may be compared in some embodiments. For example connection management module may compare the available cellular connections based on information regarding quality of service signal strength etc. from the coverage database. In various embodiments at a wireless connection may be selected and initiated based on the comparison.

In various embodiments if the determination at indicates that the connection will not be limited to only the current location anticipated future locations may be estimated at . For example connection management module may factor in the current location of the mobile computing device movement of the device direction of the movement an intended destination or address or any other relevant factor to determine possible anticipated future locations of the mobile computing device .

At in some embodiments information for the required type of wireless connection for the current location and for any anticipated future locations may be obtained from one or more coverage databases. For example connection management module may obtain information from a different coverage database for each of the current and future anticipated locations to obtain information regarding the types and quality of wireless connections available at each location.

In some embodiments a determination is made at as to whether the required type of connection having sufficient quality is available at the anticipated locations. If so the available wireless connection technologies for the current location may be compared at and a wireless connection may be selected and initiated at based on the comparison. For example connection management module may determine that sufficient wireless connections to meet current and any anticipated future wireless needs will be met along the route of the mobile computing device including the anticipated locations. In this example connection management module may focus on the wireless needs of mobile computing device at the current location and any handoff or additional alternative wireless connections may be handled appropriately upon arrival at the anticipated locations.

If it is determined at that one or more anticipated locations will not provide adequate wireless services a comparison of wireless connection technologies may be performed at and a selection and initiation of a wireless connection may be made at . At in some embodiments data for the current location and for the one or more anticipated future locations that will not provide sufficient wireless services may be sent received while at the current location. For example connection management module may determine that an application may require wireless networking capabilities at one or more anticipated locations that will not provide sufficient wireless services. In this example connection management module may send or receive data for the application at the current location that will be used by the application upon arrival at the anticipated location such that no drop in service is apparent to the user. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments a location of the mobile computing device may be determined. For example the location may comprise a current location of the mobile computing device or one or more anticipated future locations of the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the one or more anticipated locations may be estimated using one or more of a global positions system GPS a compass a GPS history a known destination location or address or a direction of movement of a mobile computing device.

A desired type of wireless connection may be determined in some embodiments. For example connections management module may determine what type and or quality of connection is required by mobile computing device . In various embodiments one or more wireless connection technologies that provide the desired type of wireless connection may be compared using information from the coverage database and the location of the mobile computing device and a wireless connection technology may be selected based on the comparison. For example a wireless connection technology may be selected to meet wireless connection requirements for an application executed at a current location.

In some embodiments prior to arriving at one or more anticipated locations data for an application that would require a wireless data connection at one or more anticipated locations may be sent and or received at the current location if a limited or no wireless data connection is available at the one or more anticipated locations. For example prior to arrival at the one or more anticipated locations map information to be used by a global positioning system GPS application at the one or more anticipated locations may be downloaded at the current location while a sufficient wireless connection is available. In another example prior to arrival at the one or more anticipated locations multimedia information to be used by a multimedia application at the one or more anticipated locations may be downloaded at the current location. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth similar to transceivers connection technologies of . In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals similar to antennas of . As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a connection management module . The connection management module may the same or similar to the connection management module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

