---

title: Systems and methods to secure transactions via mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to improve security of payment transactions via mobile communications. In one aspect, a system includes an interchange having a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and to communicate with the common format processor in a common format for the confirmation of payment requests, made via mobile phones. The common format processor is to determine a risk of a payment request being fraudulent based on the personal identification information associated with a mobile phone and, after the payment request is confirmed and when the risk is below a threshold, to communicate one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds to fulfill the payment request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412626&OS=08412626&RS=08412626
owner: Boku, Inc.
number: 08412626
owner_city: San Francsico
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101207
---
The present application claims the benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 285 519 filed Dec. 10 2009 and entitled Systems and Methods to Secure Transactions via Mobile Devices the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

At least some embodiments of the disclosure relate to mobile communications in general and more particularly but not limited to mobile communications to facilitate online transactions.

Short Message Service SMS is a communications protocol that allows the interchange of short text messages between mobile telephone devices. SMS messages are typically sent via a Short Message Service Center SMSC of a mobile carrier which uses a store and forward mechanism to deliver the messages. When a mobile telephone is not reachable immediately for the delivery of the message the SMSC stores the message for later retry.

SMS messages can be sent via gateways. Some gateways function as aggregators. An aggregator typically does not have the capacity to deliver the messages directly to the mobile phones. An aggregator typically interfaces with and relies upon the SMSC of a mobile carrier to deliver SMS messages.

Some gateways function as providers that are capable of sending text messages to mobile devices directly without going through the SMSC of other mobile operators.

Text messaging between mobile telephones can also be performed using other protocols such as SkyMail and Short Mail in Japan.

Some mobile carriers provide email gateway services to allow text messages to be sent to mobile phones via email. For example a non subscriber of the mobile carrier may send a message to an email address associated with a mobile phone of a subscriber of the mobile carrier to have the message delivered to the mobile phone via text messaging.

Emails can also be sent to mobile telephone devices via standard mail protocols such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP over Internet Protocol Suite commonly TCP IP named from two of the protocols the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP .

Short messages may be used to provide premium services to mobile phones such as news alerts ring tones etc. The premium content providers may send the messages to the SMSC of the mobile operator using a TCP IP protocol such as Short Message Peer to peer Protocol SMPP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol for delivery to a mobile phone and the mobile phone is billed by the mobile operator for the cost of receiving the premium content.

Premium services may also be delivered via text messages initiated from the mobile phone. For example a televoting service provider may obtain a short code to receive text messages from mobile phones and when the user sends a text message to the short code the mobile carrier routes the message to the televoting service provider and charges the user a fee a portion of which is collected for the televoting service provider.

Systems and methods are provided to facilitate online transactions via mobile communications. Some embodiments are summarized in this section.

In one aspect a system includes a data storage facility to store and associate personal identification information with a mobile phone number of a user and an interchange coupled with the data storage facility. The interchange includes a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and the converters are configured to communicate with the common format processor in a common format.

In one embodiment the common format processor is configured to instruct a first controller of the controllers via a first converter of the converters to communicate with a mobile phone at the mobile phone number of the user to confirm a payment request and obtain second personal identification information to determine a risk of the request being fraudulent based on a distance between the first personal identification information and the second personal identification information and after the request is confirmed and when the risk is below a threshold to communicate one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone funds in accordance with the request.

In another aspect a method includes receiving in a server computer a request for a transaction between a first party and a second party the request including an indication of a phone number of the first party and an amount to be paid to the second party in response to the request communicating by the server computer with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the transaction determining by the server computer a value indicating a risk of the request being fraudulent based on personal identification information of the first party and after the transaction is confirmed and if the risk as indicated by the value is below a threshold transmitting by the server computer one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone funds in accordance with the amount to be paid to the second party.

The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods.

Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

In one embodiment an interchange is used to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications such as SMS messages. The interchange can be used to associate account information with phone numbers to facilitate electronic payments via mobile devices such as cellular phones. The interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phones through the different controllers to provide security and convenience for online transactions.

In a data storage facility stores user account information and the corresponding phone numbers of the mobile phones . The interchange is coupled with the data storage facility to communicate with the mobile phones at the corresponding phone numbers to confirm operations that are performed using the account information . Since the account information is secured by the interchange the account information can be used to pay for products and services offered by the servers of various merchants without being revealed to the merchants.

In one embodiment the server offers products and or services adapted for a virtual world environment such as an online game environment a virtual reality environment etc. The products may be virtual goods which can be delivered via the transmission of data or information without having to physically deliver an object to the user . For example the virtual goods may be a song a piece of music a video clip an article a computer program a decorative item for an avatar a piece of virtual land in a virtual world a virtual object in a virtual reality world etc. For example an online game environment hosted on a server may sell services and products via points or virtual currency which may be consumed by the user while engaging in a game session. For example a virtual reality world hosted on a server may have a virtual currency which may be used by the residents of the virtual reality world to conduct virtual commerce within the virtual reality world e.g. buy virtual lands virtual stocks virtual objects services provided in the virtual reality world etc . In other embodiments the server may also offer physical goods such as books compact discs photo prints postcards etc.

In the interchange may communicate with different controllers of mobile communications via different networks e.g. and and or protocols. The interchange processes the requests in a common format and uses a set of converters for communications with the different controllers respectively.

For example the controllers may be different aggregators providers and or SMSCs of different mobile carriers. Based on the phone numbers the interchange interfaces with the corresponding controllers to communicate with the mobile phones via text messaging to confirm the operations related to the corresponding account information such as bank accounts credit card numbers charge card numbers etc.

In the user terminals may use a unified interface to send requests to the interchange . For example a web site of the interchange may be used to receive the account information from the web browsers running in the user terminals . The user terminals are typically different from the mobile phones . However in some embodiments users may use the mobile phone to access the web and submit the account information . Alternatively the users may use the mobile phone to submit the account information to the interchange via text messaging email instant messaging etc.

The use of the mobile phones in the confirmation of activities that involve the account information increases the security of the transaction since the mobile phones are typically secured in the possession of the users.

Further in one embodiment the interchange may use the phone bills of the mobile phones to pay for purchases in order to use the account information to pay for the phone bills and or to deposit funds into the accounts identified by the account information by charging on the phone bills of the corresponding mobile phones . In some embodiments the accounts identified by the account information are hosted on the data storage facility . In other embodiments the accounts are hosted on the account servers of financial institutions such as banks credit unions credit card companies etc.

In one embodiment once the account information is associated with the mobile phones via their phone numbers stored in the data storage facility the users may use the user terminals to access online servers of various merchants or service providers to make purchases. From the user terminals the users can use the accounts identified by the account information to make the payment for the purchases without revealing their account information to the operators of the servers .

In one embodiment the mobile phones are used by the corresponding users to make payments and or manage funds such as for making purchases in various websites hosted on the servers of merchants and service providers and or for transferring funds to or from an account identified by the account information such as phone bills of land line telephone services credit card accounts debit card accounts bank accounts etc. or an account hosted on the data storage facility or telecommunication accounts of the mobile phones with telecommunication carriers. The mobile phones are used to confirm and or approve the transactions associated with the account identified by the account information or other accounts . The interchange interfaces the mobile phones and the servers to confirm and or approve transactions and to operate on the account identified by the account information and or other accounts associated with the phone number .

For example the user terminal may provide the phone numbers to the servers to allow the servers to charge the account identified by the account information associated with the phone number . The interchange sends a message to the mobile phone via the phone number to confirm the payment request. Once the payment is confirmed or approved via the corresponding mobile phone the interchange charges the account identified by the account information e.g. by communicating with the account server on which the corresponding accounts are hosted and pays the server on behalf of the user using the funds obtained from the corresponding account identified by the account information .

In one embodiment the user terminal may not even provide the phone number to the server to process the payment. The server may redirect a payment request to the interchange which then prompts the user terminal to provide the phone number to the web site of the interchange to continue the payment process.

For example the server may redirect the payment request to the web site of the interchange with a reference indicating the purchase made via the user terminal . The interchange can use the reference to subsequently complete the payment with the server for the purchase after receiving the phone number directly from the user terminal to confirm the payment via the mobile phone .

In some embodiments instead of directly providing the phone number to identify the account information the user may provide other information to identify the phone number such as an account identifier of the user assigned to the user for obtaining the services of the interchange .

In one embodiment the account information is pre associated with the phone number prior to the payment request. The account information may be submitted to the interchange via the user terminal or the mobile phone via a secure connection.

Alternatively the user may supply the account information to the interchange at the time the payment request is submitted from the user terminal to the interchange . Alternatively the user may supply the account information to the interchange at the time the user responds to the confirmation message for the payment request.

In some embodiments the user may supply the account information after a transaction using funds collected via the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone at the phone number . For example after the transaction the interchange may send an invitation message such as a text message to the mobile phone at the phone number to the user to invite the user to register with the interchange and provide the account information . The user may register with the interchange via the mobile phone e.g. by a replying text message or via a web page of the interchange e.g. using a link and or a unique code provided in the invitation message .

After the user registers with the interchange e.g. via the mobile phone and by providing the account information the user may create a customized personal identification number PIN or receive a PIN for enhanced security. Using the PIN the user may use the account information to complete an online transaction without having to confirm and or approve a transaction using the mobile phone . In some embodiments the PIN may be used to reduce unwanted messages to the mobile phone . For example once the phone number and the account information are associated with a PIN the interchange may require the user of the user terminal to provide the correct PIN to initiate the payment process. Thus a spammer having only the phone number or a different user mistakenly using the phone number may not successfully use the user terminal to request the interchange to send confirmation messages to the mobile phone protected by the PIN. In some embodiments the interchange may offer further incentives to the user for registering with the interchange such as reduced fees discounts coupons free products and services etc.

In one embodiment once the account information is associated with the phone number in the data storage facility the user does not have to resubmit the account information in subsequent payment requests.

By delegating the payment task to the interchange and securing the account information in the data storage facility the system as shown in can increase the security of using the account information in an online environment.

In some embodiments the interchange can also fulfill the payment requests using the funds collected via the phone bill of the phone numbers . The interchange can collect the funds via sending premium messages to the mobile phones at the phone numbers after receiving confirmation from the mobile phone .

For example after the confirmation or approval message is received from the mobile phone the interchange performs operations to collect funds via the phone bill of the phone number . The interchange may calculate the required premium messages to bill to the mobile phone . For example mobile terminated premium SMS messages may have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange determines a combination of the premium messages that has a price closest to the amount required by the transaction and sends this combination of premium messages to the mobile phone . For example mobile originated premium SMS messages may also have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange can calculate the set of messages required for the transaction and transmit a text message to the mobile phone of the user to instruct the user to send the required number of premium messages to provide the funds.

In the interchange includes a common format processor which processes various payment options in a common format. In one embodiment the common format processor can handle the payments via mobile terminated text message mobile originated text message operator bill credit card stored value account and other online payment options. The common format processor determines the actual amount that is to be billed to the user based on the payment options e.g. mobile terminated premium SMS mobile originated premium SMS operator billing credit cards etc. and selects a converter to communicate with a corresponding controller .

Different converters are configured to communicate with corresponding controllers in different languages and protocols. The converters perform the translation between the common format used by the common format processor and the corresponding formats used by the controllers .

The use of the common format processor simplifies the structure of the interchange and reduces the development effort required for the interchange to interface with the increasing number of different controllers such as SMSC mobile providers aggregators gateways etc.

In one premium message billing method the interchange sends mobile terminated premium SMS messages to the mobile phone to bill the user or requests the mobile phone to send mobile originated premium SMS messages to a short code representing the interchange .

In one operator billing method the interchange directly sends a message to the mobile carrier of the mobile phone to bill the amount on the phone bill of the mobile phone without having to send a premium message to the mobile phone .

The common format processor includes a decision engine which decides how to generate a set of one or more messages to the mobile phone based on a set of rules regulations limits records and restrictions .

For example different countries have different regulations governing the mobile communications with the mobile phones . For example different mobile carriers have different rules regarding premium messages. For example past transaction records can be used to monitor the transactions to discover suspected fraudulent activities. For example parental limits and merchant restrictions can be imposed.

Based on results of the decision engine the mobile message generator generates one or more messages to communicate with the mobile phone about the transaction e.g. a request to collect funds via the phone bill of the user for a payment request or for deposit into an account identified by the account information . The converter then interfaces with the corresponding controller to transmit the messages to the mobile phones .

After the user provides the account information to the interchange for storage in the data storage facility the user can send a charge request to the server of a merchant from the user terminal . The server of the merchant can send or redirect the charge request to the interchange . In response to the charge request the interchange sends a confirmation message to the mobile phone . If the user sends an approval or an appropriate reply to the confirmation message from the mobile phone the interchange communicates with the account server to charge an account of the user identified by the account information without revealing the account information to the server . The interchange pays the merchant on behalf of the user using the funds collected via charging the account of the user. For example the interchange may use its own bank account to pay the merchant operating the server . Thus the financial information of the user is not revealed to the merchant.

Upon the completion of the payment process the interchange can notify the user via the mobile phone and or the user terminal .

In some embodiments the server of the merchant redirects the charge request to allow the user terminal to communicate with the interchange to continue the payment process and the user terminal may provide the account information directly to the interchange after the charge request is redirected.

In alternative embodiments the user may provide the account information from the mobile phone together with the approval of the charge request.

In one embodiment the interchange communicates with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the charge request via SMS messages. Alternatively the confirmation and approval messages can be sent via emails instant messages voice message live calls from operators etc.

In some embodiments the user of the mobile phone may choose to fulfill the charge request via the phone bill instead of charging the account identified by the account information . Thus after the confirmation the interchange sends the premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds via the phone bill of the mobile phone . In other embodiments the interchange may send an instruction with the confirmation message to the mobile phone to instruct the user to send mobile originated premium messages to the interchange to collect the funds via the phone bill of the mobile phone .

In the user interface further includes an option list which allows the user to select various types of accounts such as credit card accounts bank accounts charge card accounts etc. In the example illustrated in the checkbox is selected to specify a credit card account.

In some embodiments the user interface may further present a text field not shown in to allow the user to specify an alias for the account information supplied in the text input field . For enhanced security the alias can be used for subsequent communications with the user without revealing the account information .

In the user interface may be presented via a web browser or a custom application to submit account information in the text input field from a user terminal to the interchange . Alternatively the account number can be submitted from the mobile phone via a message sent via SMS WAP voice mail or via an interactive voice response IVR system.

In one embodiment the messages and are transmitted to the mobile phone via a short message service SMS . Alternatively the messages can be transmitted to the mobile phone via other protocols such as multimedia message service MMS email instant messaging WAP voice mail voice messages via an interactive voice response IVR system etc.

In one embodiment after the user selects the payment option the server directs the request to the web server of the interchange with a set of parameters to indicate the amount the identity of the merchant a reference to the purchase etc. Thus the user does not have to provide any personal information to the server of the merchant to complete the payment process.

Alternatively the user may provide the phone number to the merchant to process the payment. Thus the user does not have to visit the web site of the interchange to complete the payment.

In one embodiment the server presents the payment option via an online shopping cart system or a third party checkout system. Alternatively or in combination the server presents the payment option via a web widget. For example a web widget may include a program code that is portable and executable within a web page without requiring additional compilation. The web widget allows the user to select the option to pay for the product and or service without leaving the web page or refreshing the web page. In one embodiment the interchange provides the web widget to facilitate the payment processing.

Further user authentication may be used to reduce false messages to the phone number . For example the user interface may request a PIN for enhanced security. For example the user may be required to register with the interchange prior to using the services of the interchange and after registering with the interchange the user is provided with the PIN or can created a customized PIN to access the functionality provided by the user interface .

Alternatively the user interface may request an identifier associated with the phone number to initiate the payment transaction. In some embodiments the user interface requires the user to provide no information other than the phone number in the text field to initiate the transaction.

In the user interface allows the user to select one option from a plurality of payment options including paying via the phone bill and paying via one or more of the accounts identified by the account information associated with the phone number in the data storage facility .

In some embodiments the user interface may present the payment options after authenticating the user e.g. via a personal identification number or password for enhanced security.

In some embodiments the user interface identifies the different accounts represented by the account information by showing aliases of the accounts. The aliases may be previously specified by the user or be dynamically generated by the interchange based on the types of the accounts and or portions of the account information e.g. the first or last few digits of the account number etc. 

In one embodiment once the user submits the payment request via the user interface the interchange transmits a confirmation message to the mobile phone according to the phone number provided in the text field . In one embodiment the interchange transmits the confirmation to the mobile phone after the user is authenticated via the user interface to reduce the possibility of unauthorized unwelcome messages to the mobile phone which may occur when the user intentionally or unintentionally provides an unrelated phone number in the entry box .

In one embodiment the confirmation message includes the instruction to reply with a code such as a code e.g. pay provided in the confirmation message as illustrated in .

The presence of the code in the reply message is an indication of the user approving the request and the requirement for such a code in the reply eliminates false confirmations e.g. generated via accidental replies or automated replies .

Alternatively or in combination the requested code may include a PIN associated with the account and or a code not shown randomly generated and presented in the user interface used to initiate the payment transaction e.g. user interface .

In some embodiments the code requested in the text message may be a personal identification number PIN associated with the phone number . The text message does not include the code and the knowledge of the code is an indication of the identity of the user. Thus the use of such a code increases the security of the transaction.

In a further embodiment the code requested in the text message includes a code that is provided in response to the payment request e.g. via the user interface not shown in . The code may be generated randomly at the time the request is received via the user interface or when the user interface is presented to the user. The code provided to the user interface can be requested in the reply received from the user interface to indicate that the user who is in possession of the mobile phone has actual knowledge about the payment request submitted via the user interface .

After the correct reply is received the interchange communicates with the account server to electronically charge the user using the account information and pays the payee using the funds collected via communicating with the account server . The interchange then notifies the user when the payment transaction is complete.

For example the interchange may notify the user via a text message to the mobile phone as illustrated in . illustrates a user interface to confirm the completion of a payment transaction according to one embodiment. No reply to the message that confirms the completion of the payment transaction is necessary. Once the payment transaction is complete the user would have access to the product purchased via the payment transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange stores an address of the user associated with the phone number . After the completion of the payment transaction the interchange provides the address to the server of the merchant for the delivery of the purchased product. In some embodiments the user may provide multiple addresses associated with the phone number and may select one as a delivery address in the confirmation approve message to the interchange . Alternatively the interchange may receive an address for product delivery from the mobile phone together with the confirmation approve message and then forward the address to the server of the merchant. Thus the shipping address of the transaction is verified to be associated with the mobile phone . In alternative embodiments the user may directly provide the shipping address in the website hosted on the server of the merchant.

In other embodiments the user is provided with the options to pay via the mobile phone bill associated with the phone number . The interchange may dynamically calculate a set of premium messages based on a set of limited number of predetermined prices for premium messages to match the purchase price. The interchange sends the set of premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds via the telecommunication carriers to pay for the purchases. Thus the purchase prices are not limited to the set of predetermined prices for premium messages. In some embodiments the interchange may send the set of premium messages in a period of time e.g. a week a month a number of mouths etc. to spread the payments over the period of time e.g. to overcome budget limits and or limits imposed by regulations .

In one embodiment the user is required to provide the approval in response to the confirmation message as illustrated in within a predetermined period of time. If the user fails to provide the approval from the mobile phone within the predetermined period of time the payment request may be rejected and the user interface may present a message indicating the failure and then redirect the user back to the website of the payee.

In some embodiments instead of redirecting the user back to the website of the payee after the expiration of a predetermined period of time e.g. after the failure of the payment process or after the completion of the payment the user interface may provide a link to the website of the payee to allow the user to manually select the link to go back to the website of the payee to continue the process at the website of the payee.

In the user may reply with the code 1 to approve the payment request and to pay via the phone bill of the mobile phone . Alternatively the user may reply with the credit card information to charge the payment to a credit card as illustrated in .

In one embodiment if the user provides credit card account information in the approval message the credit card account information is stored and associated with the phone number in the data storage facility . Thus in subsequent approval messages the user does not have to supply the same information again.

For example the data storage facility may store account information for each of a plurality of account types e.g. Visa MasterCard checking savings etc. Thus each of the accounts can be identified to the user via the account type in the confirmation message without revealing the details of the account information.

For example the interchange may combine the name of the financial institutions and the type of accounts to generate aliases for the account information.

In some embodiment the user may define the aliases for the account information by supplying the aliases with the account information for association with the phone number .

After receiving a confirmation or approval from the mobile phone for the payment the interchange electronically charges the user an amount using the account identifier e.g. via communicating with the account server using the account identifier . The interchange then transfers the amount to a payee to fulfill the payment.

After the interchange receives a confirmation with an account identifier e.g. from the mobile phone for the request the interchange electronically communicates with a financial institution to charge the user the specified amount using the account identifier. The interchange pays the payee according to the amount optionally charges the user a first fee to pay the payee and optionally charges the payee a second fee for processing the payment.

In one embodiment the users are given an incentive to provide the account information for electronic payments via the account servers . For example the interchange may charge a lower fee for fulfilling payment requests via the account server than for fulfilling payments requests via the phone bill. For example the interchange may offer rebates discounts etc. to the users who provide the account information . In some embodiments the interchange can complete a payment process via the account server with fewer restrictions than via the phone bill.

In one embodiment the merchant may specify the second fee. Different merchants may offer different percentages of the purchase prices as the second fee and the interchange may calculate the first fee based on the second fee offered by the merchant by deducting the second fee from the total fees to be charged e.g. fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill associated with the telephone number and or the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments . Since the first fee is charged to the customer e.g. the purchaser of products and services the cost to the customer can vary based on the selection of the merchant. For the same purchase prices the first fee and thus the cost to the customer may be different for purchases made via different merchants because the merchants may offer different percentage of the purchase price as the second fee. In some embodiments the first and second fees include both fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill account associated with the phone number and the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments. In some embodiments the first fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the second fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the first fee and or the second fee do not include the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier. In some embodiments the first fee is not charged and in other embodiments the second fee is not charged.

In one embodiment a personal identification number PIN is used in the confirmation of a transaction. The PIN may be stored in the user account hosted on the data storage facility of the interchange and be associated with the phone number and or the account information . For example a user requesting a transaction using the funds associated with the phone number may be required by the interchange to present the correct PIN associated with the phone number .

In some embodiments the PIN may be the same as a PIN used by a third party to control access to products and or services for the user having the phone number . For example the PIN for accessing the voice mail of the phone number can be used by the interchange to verify the identity of the user who attempts to use the funds associated with the phone number . For example the interchange may receive a PIN from the user and communicate with a telecommunication carrier of the phone number to verify whether the received PIN is a correct PIN for accessing the voice mail of the phone number .

In some embodiments a correct PIN is stored on the mobile phone to control access to the services of the interchange . For example an application running on the mobile phone may prompt the user to provide a PIN and check the PIN received from the user against the correct PIN stored on the mobile phone to determine whether the user is authorized to use the mobile phone to access the services of the interchange . In some embodiments the PIN is specific for the control of access to the services of the interchange . Without the PIN the user may use other functions of the mobile phone such as making phone calls sending emails or text messages etc. When it is determined that the user is authorized to use services of the interchange via the mobile phone the application allows the user to send a confirmation message to the interchange to confirm a transaction or to display a code received from the interchange for the confirmation of the transaction via presenting the code in a web page of the interchange .

In some embodiments the interchange requires the user to provide the PIN associated with the phone number via the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm a transaction. The user may provide the PIN to the mobile phone which transmits the received PIN to the interchange for verification. The user may provide the PIN in response to a message from the interchange to the mobile phone at the phone number or in response to the interchange presenting a request on the user terminal to request the user to send to the interchange a confirmation message from the mobile phone at the phone number . Alternatively the user may provide the correct PIN in the user terminal to obtain a confirmation code which is to be transmitted from the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the transaction.

In some embodiments the user may provide the correct combination of the PIN and the phone number to the user terminal to request a transaction without the need to further confirm the request via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment to further improve security the communications from the mobile phone at the phone number further include an identification number stored on the mobile phone e.g. in an integrated circuit IC chip . For example a software program e.g. a Java application can be used to read a hardware identification number from the IC chip of the mobile phone and transmit a confirmation message including the hardware identification to indicate that the message is indeed from a mobile phone registered with the user.

In one embodiment the International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI of the mobile phone is used as the hardware identification number. Alternatively a hardware identification number may be assigned to and stored into the mobile phone when the mobile phone is initially configured for the services of the interchange e.g. when the application is installed on the mobile phone .

In one embodiment when the mobile phone at the phone number is registered for the services of the interchange a software application is installed and or configured on the mobile phone . The software application can be implemented using Java programming language in one embodiment. Other programming languages can also be used. Further in some embodiments the application can be implemented via hardware circuits such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or a combination of special purpose hardware circuits and instructions.

In one embodiment the application is configured on the mobile phone to present a user interface to confirm a transaction according to one embodiment as illustrated in . In the application communicates with the interchange to present information that identifies aspects of the transaction such as the payee the amount involved in the transaction a description of the product or service in the transaction etc.

In the user interface includes an entry box to receive a PIN from the user. When the PIN received in the user interface is invalid the user interface may reject the input and prevent the user from sending the confirmation message via the user interface .

Alternatively the user interface may accept the user input without checking the input for validity and transmit the confirmation with the received PIN to the interchange . The interchange then checks the received PIN for validity. If the interchange determines that the received PIN is valid for the phone number of the mobile phone the interchange accepts the confirmation and performs the requested transaction. If the interchange determines that the received PIN is invalid the user interface may prompt the user to re enter the PIN.

In some embodiments the user interface and or the interchange may prevent the user from using the user interface after the user fails to provide the correct PIN after a predetermined number of attempts.

In the user interface further includes an entry box for the user to enter a code that represents the transaction. For example when the user uses the user terminal to submit a transaction request e.g. via a web browser the interchange provides the code as an identifier of the transaction.

In one embodiment after the user enters the code in the entry box the application running the user interface communicates with the interchange to obtain the information about the transaction such as the payee the amount of the transaction a description etc. Thus providing the code in the entry box allows the user to see in the user interface the information specific to the transaction for the confirmation of the correct transaction.

In one embodiment the code is a one time code which expires after the code is submitted to the interchange . To improve security the interchange may cause the one time code to expire after a predetermined period of time from when the one time code is provided by the interchange to the user. When the one time code or the PIN is incorrect the interchange rejects the confirmation. After an incorrect combination of the PIN and the one time code is received the interchange may cause the one time code to expire and the user is prompted to resubmit the transaction request to obtain a new one time code.

In some embodiments the interchange may allow the user interface to resubmit the input for the PIN a number of times if the one time code is valid. For example the user interface may be presented in response to a message from the interchange requesting the confirmation of the transaction. The one time code is required in the entry box to ensure that the user has knowledge about the transaction submitted via the user terminal . The PIN is required in the entry box to ensure that the user is authorized. In some embodiments the one time code is optional.

In some embodiments the interchange provides the one time code to the user via the user interface . The application may send the one time code back to the interchange to identify the transaction being confirmed by the user.

Alternatively the interchange may require the user to provide the one time code back to the interchange via the user terminal that submits the corresponding transaction request. After the one time code shown in the user interface on the mobile device is transmitted from the user terminal to the web server of the interchange the transaction is confirmed with the interchange .

In one embodiment the PIN is used to protect access to the one time code . The user interface is configured to display the one time code after the user enters the correct PIN in the entry box . If the user fails to enter the correct PIN in the entry box the user interface does not display the one time code which is required in the user terminal to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the code is a one time password which is generated on the mobile phone . The one time password is provided to the interchange to confirm the transaction e.g. via the mobile phone communicating with the interchange or via the user terminal communicating with the interchange .

In one embodiment the one time password is generated on the mobile phone after the request for the transaction is submitted to the interchange via the user terminal . The one time password is not received in the mobile phone from the interchange as a result of the transaction request. In one embodiment the one time password is generated based at least in part on a seed that is configured in the mobile phone prior to the transaction.

In one embodiment the one time password is generated on the mobile phone after the PIN is verified in the entry box . If the PIN entered in the entry box is invalid the mobile phone does not generate the one time password.

In one embodiment the user is instructed to use the one time password to authenticate with the interchange using the user terminal that submits the request for the transaction. Alternatively the mobile phone may transmit the one time password to confirm the transaction. In some embodiments the mobile application generates the one time password and transmits the one time password to the interchange to confirm the transaction without displaying the one time password to the user after the user enters the correct PIN.

In one embodiment the correct PIN is stored on the mobile phone e.g. in an encrypted format . Thus the user interface can verify the PIN entered in the entry box without communicating with the interchange .

Alternatively the correct PIN may be stored on the data storage facility of the interchange . The application running on the mobile phone communicates the PIN received in the entry box to the interchange e.g. in an encrypted format for verification.

Alternatively a third party may store the correct PIN e.g. for controlling access to the voice mail of the phone number . After the interchange obtains the PIN received in the entry box the interchange communicates with the third party to verify the PIN.

In some embodiments the hardware identification number includes a number that is assigned to the mobile phone when the mobile phone is registered with the interchange for the services provided by the interchange . For example the interchange may use an application to write the assigned number into an integrated circuit IC chip in the mobile phone to identify the mobile phone . In some embodiments the assigned number is written into a removable memory module to represent the registered mobile phone .

In the mobile phone includes a seed for the one time password generator . The one time password generator is configured to generate a series of passwords for authenticating with the interchange based on the seed and or the current time. Thus the one time password generated on the mobile phone is in synchronization with the corresponding one time password generated or used on the interchange . Alternatively the one time password generator may not rely upon the current date and time for synchronization and the interchange is configured to tolerate skipping of up to a predetermined number of one time passwords to accept a one time password from the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the PIN verifier is configured to check the PIN received in the entry box against the PIN stored on the mobile phone . After the PIN verifier determines that there is a match between the PIN stored on the mobile phone and the PIN received in the entry box the communication subsystem transmits a one time password obtained from the one time password generator and the hardware identification number to the interchange to confirm the transaction. In one embodiment the one time password is used to encrypt the confirmation transmitted from the mobile phone to the interchange to confirm the transaction.

The mobile phone may transmit the confirmation message to the interchange via short message service SMS email a WAP request or a web request. Other communication protocols can also be used.

In neither the interchange nor the mobile phone stores the correct PIN associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . A third party stores the correct PIN associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . To confirm a transaction the interchange transmits a message to the mobile phone at the phone number to request a confirmation message from the mobile phone . The mobile phone presents a user interface e.g. to receive an input for the PIN from the user and transmits the received PIN to the interchange which further communicates with the third party to verify whether the received PIN matches the correct PIN. Thus the user may use the same PIN for multiple services associated with the phone number such as accessing voice mail at the phone number and paying for purchases using funds associated with the phone number .

In after a request for a transaction between a first party and a second party is received in the interchange e.g. via a web server the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at a phone number identified in the request to confirm the transaction via checking a PIN associated with the phone number . The transaction is confirmed if a PIN entered into the mobile phone by the user of the mobile phone is correct. After the transaction is confirmed the interchange collects funds for the transaction via transmitting premium messages to the mobile phone .

In the interchange provides instructions and data to a mobile phone at a phone number to configure the mobile phone for the services of the interchange . The instructions may be in Java programming language or other programming languages. The data may include a seed for the one time password generator and or a portion of the hardware identification number . For example the user may use the mobile phone to download the instructions and data from the interchange .

After the mobile phone is configured via the instructions and data the interchange may receive a request identifying the phone number and transmit a message to the user to cause the mobile phone to execute the instructions on the mobile phone to present a user interface . After the identify of the user is verified based on a PIN entered into the user interface the mobile phone generates a one time password on the mobile phone and transmits the one time password to the interchange to confirm the request. Once the request is confirmed via the confirmation transmitted from the mobile phone the interchange provides a payment according to the request e.g. using funds associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the interchange includes a server computer. The server computer may be used to receive a request for a transaction between a first party and a second party. The request includes the indication of a phone number of the first party and an amount to be paid to the second party.

In response to the request the server computer communicates with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm via a personal identification number of the first party the transaction. After the transaction is confirmed via the personal identification number of the first party the server computer transmits one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone funds in accordance with the amount to be paid to the second party.

In one embodiment the interchange provides instructions to the mobile phone . When executed the instructions cause the mobile phone to present a user interface to receive a first personal identification number.

The instructions may further cause the mobile phone to encrypt the first personal identification number for transmission from the mobile phone to the server computer. The server computer is to compare the first personal identification number with a second personal identification number associated with the phone number of the mobile phone to determine whether the transaction is confirmed.

Alternatively the instructions may further cause the mobile phone to compare the first personal identification number with a second personal identification number stored on the mobile phone to determine whether the first personal identification number is correct. After determining that the first personal identification number is correct the instructions further cause the mobile phone to transmit a message to the server computer to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the instructions further cause the message to include a hardware identification code of the mobile phone . The hardware identification code may be provided to the mobile phone in a read only memory before the mobile phone is distributed to an end user. For example the hardware identification code may include International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI .

In some embodiments the hardware identification code is provided to the mobile phone when the mobile phone is registered with the server computer for services offered by the server computer.

In one embodiment the instructions further cause the mobile phone to transmit the message to the server computer via short message service SMS . In some embodiments the message includes a one time password generated via the instructions. For example the one time password can be generated based on a current time and the server computer is to determine whether the one time password is generated by the mobile phone . When the one time password matches a series of passwords configured to be generated by the mobile phone the one time password is accepted. In one embodiment the server computer provides to the mobile phone at the phone number a seed for generation of the one time password which is used by the instructions to generate the one time password.

In one embodiment the server computer provides the first party with a seed for one time password generation when the first party registers for services of the server computer and the instructions cause the mobile phone to present a user interface to receive the seed.

In one embodiment the server computer is to further communicate with a third party to determine whether the first personal identification number received in the user interface is associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . For example the third party may be a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone and a correct personal identification number is used by the telecommunication carrier to control access to voice mails for the phone number .

In one embodiment the request is received in a web server of the server computer the server computer communicates with the mobile phone to provide a one time code to the mobile phone after the personal identification number of the first party is verified via the mobile phone and the server computer is configured to receive the one time code back in the web server to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the request is received in a web server of the server computer the server computer provides a one time code via the web server to the first party and the server computer is configured to determine whether the transaction is confirmed based on receiving from the mobile phone both the personal identification number of the first party and the one time code.

In one embodiment the interchange uses location information and or other personal identification information to improve security for the payment processing system.

For example in one embodiment the interchange may add to a score as to whether a transaction is valid based on the registered location of the mobile phone such as the billing address of the mobile phone obtained by the interchange from the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone . When the transaction occurs outside a certain geographic region relative to the registered location e.g. stretching from the house at the billing address to the corresponding city or county the transaction may be considered invalid.

In one embodiment the interchange may determine whether the location of the user terminal used to make or submit the payment request is geographically close to the mobile phone before consummating the payment. For example when the location of the user terminal is determined to be far away from the location of the mobile phone the score for the transaction may be determined to be higher than a threshold and thus the request for the transaction can be identified as fraudulent. The location of the user terminal may be determined based on the IP address of the user terminal and or based on the service of a third party e.g. The 41Parameter Inc. . The location of the mobile phone may be determined by the mobile phone e.g. via a GPS receiver in the mobile phone and or the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone e.g. based the location of a base station that is in communication with the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the merchant server provides the interchange with the location of the user of the user terminal e.g. based on user registration data at the merchant server . In some embodiments the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone provides the interchange with the location of the mobile phone e.g. the billing address of the user and or the current location of the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the interchange stores historical location information for past transactions including the locations of the user terminal and or the locations of the mobile phone and compares the current location information with the historical location information to determine the risk score for the current payment request. In some embodiments the historical location information is stored in association with the Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN of the mobile phone . In some embodiments the interchange may further obtain location information related to mobile phone from social networking websites such as Facebook in an automated way.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to use consistency of personal identification information to determine the risk score for the current payment request. For example the personal identification information can be information that is personally identifiable with the user and may be obtained from a trusted source e.g. a third party for identifying the locations of user terminals a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone the merchant servers such as location information. The interchange may communicate with the trusted source to obtain the personal identification information via an Application Programming Interface API .

Alternatively the interchange may ask the user to verify the personal identification information via an SMS message to validate the transaction. For example when the user makes a purchase at the merchant server and chooses to make the payment via the mobile phone of the user the interchange sends a text message to the user to request the user to reply with the personal identification information such as the zip code of the billing address of the mobile phone or the last four digits of the social security number of the user the first four digits of the street address of the user a PIN of the user with the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone etc. The interchange may query the telecommunication carrier as to whether the reply from the user matches the corresponding data the telecommunication carrier stores for the mobile phone . In one embodiment after the user enters the correct personal identification information e.g. zip code social security number PIN a predetermined number of times for one or more payment requests the interchange is configured to trust the mobile phone . For example while the mobile phone is within the area in which the correct personal identification information was entered the mobile phone is used to pay the same merchant and or the current payment request is within a predetermined time period from when the correct personal identification information was previously provided via the mobile phone the interchange may bypass the request for the user to enter the personal identification information even though the mobile phone is outside an area from the billing address of the mobile phone or far away from the user terminal that makes the payment request. In some embodiments the interchange may bypass the requirement to enter the personal identification information based on the identity of the merchant and or the price or amount of the payment request. In one embodiment the interchange may bypass the requirement to enter the personal identification information if the location of the mobile phone is determined to be within a predetermined trusted area e.g. near the billing address within a commercial district of a previous purchase that occurred within a predetermined period of time etc. In one embodiment the interchange uses the location of the user terminal and or the location of the mobile phone recorded for the previous payment transactions e.g. transactions confirmed via verifying the personal identification information to expand the locations the interchange may trust for subsequent payment requests related to the mobile phone . In one embodiment after a threshold period of time has passed since a previous transaction the interchange removes the location of the previous transaction from the trusted listed and thus may reduce the trusted area. When the payment request is within the trusted geographical area for the mobile phone the interchange may bypass the request for the personal identification information for the verification of the identity of the requester. In some embodiments the trusted areas are determined based on a set of transactions that occurred within a period of time from the current payment request. Similarly the patterns in previous distances between the user terminal and the mobile and or the timing of the requests can be used to establish customized trusted distance threshold and or payment timing related to the mobile phone . When a payment request is outside the trusted space and time relations the interchange may request the user to enter the personal identification information via the user terminal and or the mobile phone to authorize the transaction.

In some embodiments the interchange asks the user to use the user terminal to verify the personal identification information before the interchange communicates with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the payment request. For example the interchange may request the user to specify via the user terminal the PIN of the user of the mobile phone to access voice mails maintained by the telecommunications carrier for the mobile phone or other personal identification information . After obtaining the personal identification information from the user terminal the interchange queries the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone to determine whether the information provided by the user using the user terminal is correct. If the information received from the user terminal is not correct the interchange does not accept the payment request.

In one embodiment the user terminal and the mobile phone are distinct and separate from each other. The user terminal is used to submit the payment request which identifies the mobile phone as a way to make the payment. The mobile phone is used to provide confirmation of the payment request. After the payment request is confirmed via the mobile phone and after the interchange determines that the risk related to the payment request is below a threshold e.g. determined based on a distance between the personal identification information associated with the user terminal and the personal identification information associated with the mobile phone the interchange uses funds associated with the mobile phone to fulfill the payment request.

For example the interchange may send premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for the payment request via the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone request the user to send premium messages to the interchange to provide the funds request the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone to bill the user on behalf of the interchange using the phone bill of the mobile phone or charge a credit card or debit card or bank card of the user stored with the phone number of the mobile phone in the data storage facility .

In one embodiment the interchange derives the personal identification information associated with the user terminal based on the payment request received from the user terminal . For example in one embodiment the payment request includes an identifier of the user terminal such as an IP address or a name of the user used to access the service of the merchant server and the interchange uses the identifier to derive the personal identification information such as the geographical location of the user with or without the help from a third party.

For example the interchange may use the IP address to look up the geographical location of the user from an Internet service provider or a third party that provides a service to map an IP address to a geographical location.

For example the interchange may use the name of the user used to access the service of the merchant server to query for the location of the user registered with the merchant server . For example the interchange may use a social networking website to obtain location information about the user in an automated way through an application programming interface of the social networking website.

In some embodiments the interchange prompts the user of the user terminal to specify the personal identification information as part of the payment request.

Similarly the interchange may obtain the personal identification information associated with the mobile phone using various different methods.

For example in one embodiment the interchange prompts the user of the mobile phone to provide the personal identification information as part of the payment request. In some embodiments the mobile phone is configured to run a mobile application to communicate with the interchange and the mobile application is configured to automatically provide the personal identification information such as the current location of the mobile phone as determined by a GPS receiver of the mobile phone to the interchange with the confirmation message.

Alternatively the interchange may derive the personal identification from the communication for the confirmation or query the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone prior to the confirmation.

For example in one embodiment the interchange queries the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone for the current location of the mobile phone e.g. based on the location of the base station that is in wireless communication with the mobile phone . For example the interchange may query a third party service provider for the verification of the current location of the mobile phone . For example the interchange may alternatively ask the telecommunication carrier or the third party to provide an estimated distance between the user terminal and the mobile phone or ask the telecommunication carrier or the third party to determine whether the mobile phone is within a predetermined region from the location of the user terminal such as whether the mobile phone is within a predetermined distance from an estimated location of the user terminal or whether the mobile phone is within the same city or state of the estimated location of the user terminal etc.

In one embodiment the interchange determines the magnitude of the mismatch between the personal identification information associated with the user terminal and the corresponding personal identification information associated with the mobile phone to determine the level of risk that the payment request is fraudulent. For example the level of risk may be proportional to the estimated distance between the user terminal and the mobile phone . When the level of risk is above a threshold the interchange may reject the request or request the user to provide further personal identification information such as a PIN a portion of a social security number of the user etc. to lower the risk score.

In the interchange identifies a location of the user terminal . For example the interchange may identify the location of the user based on a parameter embedded in the payment request forwarded or redirected from the merchant server . The merchant server may determine a location of the user terminal and provide the location to the interchange . For example the merchant server may determine the location based on user registration information or based on a location service provided by a third party.

Alternatively the interchange may determine the location of the user without the help of the merchant server . For example the interchange may look up the location of the user terminal based on the IP address of the user terminal .

In some embodiments the user is prompted by the interchange to provide the location of the user terminal to complete the payment request.

In the interchange communicates with a mobile phone identified by the payment request to confirm the request.

In one embodiment the interchange further identifies a location of the mobile phone to estimate a level of risk in the transaction based on a distance between the location of the user terminal and the location of the mobile phone .

For example the interchange may obtain the location of the mobile phone determined by a GPS receiver in the mobile phone . In one embodiment the mobile phone is configured to transmit the location determined by the GPS receiver with the confirmation message from the mobile phone to the interchange .

Alternatively the interchange may query the controller of the mobile phone for the location of the mobile phone . For example after identifying the phone number for the transaction the interchange queries the controller for the location information of the mobile phone using the phone number before or after the interchange communicates with the mobile phone to confirm the transaction.

In some embodiments the controller is configured to supplement the confirmation message transmitted from the mobile phone with an indication of the location of the mobile phone e.g. an identification of a base station that is in communication with the mobile phone and the interchange uses the indication to estimate the location of the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the interchange prompts the user to specify the location of the mobile phone in the confirmation message sent from the mobile phone to confirm the payment request.

In if the request is confirmed via the mobile phone and the level of risk is determined to be lower than a threshold the interchange makes a payment according to the request using funds associated with the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the interchange stores the locations of the user terminal and the mobile phone in association with the phone number . In processing subsequent payment requests for the phone number the stored prior locations of the user terminal and the mobile phone can be used in the estimation of the level of risk. For example when the location of the user terminal and or the location of the mobile phone associated with the current payment request are is far away from the stored locations the level of risk is higher than if the locations are not far away from each other. In one embodiment the greater the separation in the locations the higher the estimated risk level.

In one embodiment each of the interchange the data storage facility the controllers the mobile phones the user terminals the account server and the servers can be implemented as a data processing system with fewer or more components as illustrated in .

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s .

Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art. In some embodiments when the data processing system is a server system some of the I O devices such as printer scanner mice and or keyboards are optional.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize that what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code instructions by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically include one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The computer readable media may store the instructions.

The instructions may also be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. However propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. are not tangible machine readable medium and are not configured to store instructions.

In general a tangible machine readable medium includes any apparatus that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

