---

title: Methods and apparatus for on-line ordering
abstract: Systems and methods for ordering supplies from suppliers or for other e-commerce activities are described. Standards for placing orders and registering catalog information in a database are described. Systems and methods for placing orders, preprocessing supplier information using geographic information, conducting data searches and analysis locally on user access devices, continuously updating displays of browser frames, tracking orders using accounting codes, placing graphical custom orders, submitting graphical orders to suppliers, placing group orders, reducing risks associated with delinquent accounts receivable, and combinations thereof are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129319&OS=09129319&RS=09129319
owner: 
number: 09129319
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100413
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 359 filed Mar. 22 2000 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 205 filed Mar. 22 2000 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 245 503 filed Nov. 3 2000 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 245 826 filed Nov. 3 2000 and P. A. Burton U.S. provisional application entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING CODES TO IDENTIFY OR GROUP ORDERS filed Jan. 2 2001.

This invention relates to electronic commerce e commerce systems. More particularly this invention relates to systems and methods for providing suppliers catalog information to purchasers and providing orders to suppliers.

Electronic commerce systems such as Internet based shopping systems allow purchasers to electronically purchase products and services without having to visit an actual store or supplier facility. Vast quantities of supplier information may be available to purchasers or prospective purchasers via Internet accessible database servers. Similarly vast quantities of orders may be placed by users via access devices.

Because of the vast quantity of supplier information available on the Internet it may be difficult for purchasers to find or identify suppliers that may provide supplies or services that meet the purchasers needs. For example purchasers may require that suppliers be located in a selected area provide certain types of supplies participate in certain sales promotions or conform to consumer or industrial standards. Purchasers may also have a need for information related to the suppliers or supplies.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide systems and methods for providing purchasers with information about suppliers and supplies that is organized around purchasers needs and preferences for receiving orders from purchasers and for submitting the orders to suppliers.

Existing e commerce systems that provide on line ordering services to purchasers may provide on line access to a limited number of suppliers or to suppliers offering a limited scope of supplies. Existing e commerce systems may benefit from being able to offer purchasers a larger selection of supplies and a wider range of categories of supplies but it may be costly to incorporate new catalog information if the new information does not conform to formats and protocols used by the systems. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for providing existing e commerce systems with formats and protocols for incorporating catalog information from previously inaccessible suppliers and for placing orders for items and services from those suppliers catalogs.

Searches for suppliers supplier related information catalog information or any other type of information may be slowed by processes required to extract information from databases data transmission delays and other uncontrollable delays. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for providing database searching capabilities that reduce interactions with remote database engines.

In some searches purchasers may desire to find sort or group suppliers that conform to certain criteria such as distance from the purchaser participation in a given sales promotion provision of a certain brand or line of supplies or certification by an independent organization for example a consumer protection organization . Such a search may be inherently slow because it may require a purchaser to search numerous databases each of which may cause processing and transmission delays. Searching efficiency may be reduced because each database may require a different search strategy. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for categorizing information and incorporating it into preprocessing information lists for distribution to and local searching by purchasers. In particular it would be desirable to provide systems and methods for categorizing suppliers using geographic criteria and providing purchasers with preprocessed supplier information for local searching using an access device.

When an ordering system manages large numbers of orders it may difficult to supervise the progression of an order from initial reception through internal processing submission to a supplier and fulfillment by the supplier. Purchasers customer service representatives and suppliers using user access devices may not be able to remotely view orders and related information as they enter the system pass through it or arrive at a supplier s warehouse without repeatedly downloading information from a database server. Repeated downloading may be slow inefficient and may degrade a viewer s ability to analyze information on the user access device display. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for continuously updating portions of a display on a user access device without refreshing the entire display.

Sometimes organizations may have systems for tracking expenses incurred while providing services to individuals clients or other organizations. When members of organizations e.g. employees of a firm or company order supplies or services on line in connection with it may be difficult to track orders placed by a given member. This shortcoming may lead to losses in efficiency or abuses of the system. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods of identifying or tracking orders placed in connection with a particular activity function client or individual.

Some customizable items and supplies may be purchased using e commerce systems. When purchasers select items and customized features for the items it may be difficult for a user to envision how the item would appear as modified by the customization features. One solution is to display a different version of the item for each customization feature. The number of versions required increases rapidly as the number of possible options for the item increases. It may be cumbersome or impossible to provide different stock displays showing every possible combination of options for a given feature. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for virtual assembly of a customized item that receive item and option selections from on line purchasers and dynamically illustrate items as modified by any selected options at each stage of the customization or assembly process.

When orders for customized items are submitted to suppliers for fulfillment it is sometimes necessary to describe the item as customized using text. Items with multiple customized features or with customized features that overlap or intermingle with each other such as the toppings of a pizza may be difficult to describe. Such items may be difficult for a supplier to create or assemble in accordance with a description even if the description is accurate. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for automatically providing suppliers with graphically simplified illustrations of customized items e.g. an exploded view of the linkages in an automobile transmission system .

When a prospective purchaser desires to participate with other prospective purchasers in ordering supplies or services via an e commerce system the prospective purchaser may need to perform a number of tasks. Necessary tasks may include informing the others about a prospective ordering event providing them with information about suppliers or suppliers catalogs polling them for selections of suppliers or items assembling all of the selections into a single order submitting the order to a selected supplier and following up on the fulfillment of the individual portions of the order. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide systems and methods that automate some or all of the tasks that are necessary for using an e commerce system to initiate assemble submit and monitor a single consolidated order that includes orders from several different individuals or sources.

When an e commerce system is used to generate sales for suppliers by facilitating sales to purchasers an e commerce system provider may receive commissions in compensation for facilitating sales. An e commerce provider may facilitate sales for a large number of suppliers. There may be a risk that some of the suppliers will not pay due commissions. It may be costly to reduce the risk by researching the credit worthiness of suppliers or taking measures to coerce payments from delinquent suppliers. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for automatically increasing the probability at the time an order is placed with an e commerce system that commissions will be paid.

Systems and methods of the present invention may provide to consumers or other types of users web pages electronic catalogs or other displays and may receive user selections for purchasing goods and services. The selections may be received in the form of orders. Orders may then be transmitted to suppliers for fulfillment.

Ordering web sites may be provided for receiving electronic indications of the user selections. Orders may be received from independent ordering sites. To facilitate information exchange with independent sites some embodiments of the invention may provide independent sites with standards and protocols necessary for viewing catalog information and submitting orders in accordance with the invention. Catalog information may be provided to standard compliant independent sites and orders may be received from them.

Systems and methods may be provided for providing users with information which may include catalog information ordering information or any other type of information by downloading data objects which may be compressed into users access devices e.g. web browsers. Data and processing functions may be downloaded to provide users with specialized capabilities including decompressing compressed data. Processing functions may include functions for locally searching sorting grouping browsing and performing other data manipulation or calculation tasks. Processing functions for presenting data or search results to users via an access device display may be provided. A variety of presentation functions may be provided to present different forms of data to users and receive a variety of forms of user indications from users.

In some embodiments systems and methods for continuously updating a user access device display without refreshing an entire active web page may be provided. Data may be downloaded into a user s access device and stored for example in a first browser frame. Functions may be provided for displaying data in the first frame and selectively replacing portions of the data. A second browser frame which may be a hidden frame may be periodically refreshed with data from a server. Data from the second browser frame may be selected using the functions and inserted into the first frame for display. Continuously updated displays of web pages may be used for monitoring the status of data values that may change frequently such as a number of outstanding orders in a queue values of commodities or securities or values of properties measured by a laboratory instrument.

In some embodiments systems and methods for selecting prospective suppliers for users may be provided. A geographic region surrounding or including a user s location may be determined and suppliers located inside the region may be presented to the user. The borders of the region may defined to insure that presented suppliers will be located within a preselected distance from the user.

Some embodiments may identify a user within a geodetic zone including the user s location and present the user with a preprocessed list of suppliers that are associated with the zone. Suppliers may be associated with a zone for a variety of reasons including but not limited to convenience marketing or distribution priorities. Suppliers may offer delivery service to some all or none of the zone. The user may be provided with indications that a supplier does or does not deliver to the user s location based on geometric or cartographic analyses that may be performed by a central processing engine.

When a supplier offers delivery to only part of the zone and it is uncertain if the user s location falls into the delivery portion of the zone or the non delivery portion of the zone cartographic or geometric data and functions may be downloaded to the user s access device. These data and functions may automatically determine in which portion of the zone the user is located. Providing preprocessed lists and local computation functions for suppliers having undetermined delivery service may reduce database response times without reducing the amount of information provided to the user.

Some embodiments may provide systems and methods for identifying tracking grouping or sorting orders using accounting codes. Organizations or groups of users may desire to keep track of orders placed by group member users for accounting auditing billing and reporting purposes. For example an employee user may expense a business meal to a company group client.

Some embodiments may receive indications from users that an order is complete and that the user is ready to make payment arrangements. Accounting codes may be received and stored as part order information that may define the order. When the codes are received the user may be presented with information about group policies or rules governing the use of accounting codes or ordering in general. Received codes may be checked for validity and proper usage under group rules. If invalid codes are received or if rules are violated users and administrative users of groups may be warned or notified. After any validation processes are performed the order may be accepted stored and submitted to a supplier.

Administrative users representing a user group may be provided with report generation tools to generate reports regarding orders and ordering practices of the group s member users. Reports may be stratified sorted or grouped by elements of order information which may include accounting codes user names supplies ordered amount paid and other order information.

Some embodiments may provide systems and methods for receiving graphical custom orders. Graphical custom orders may include orders for customizable items in which a user selects an item and then graphically selects a customization feature or option with which to modify the selected item. Accordingly an indication of an item may be received and a graphical representation of the item may be displayed on the user s access device.

In some embodiments user indications to divide the selected item into portions may be received and the graphical representation modified accordingly. In some embodiments graphical representations of optional features may be presented to the user to prompt the user to select an option. User indications of selected options may be received. User indications of one or more portions to be modified may be received. The graphical representation of the item or any portions may be displayed as modified by the selected option or options.

An indication that the order is complete may be received and the graphical representation of the modified item may be transformed into a final state of completion e.g. it may be displayed as cooked or assembled . The selected item and modifications may be submitted to a supplier.

In some embodiments an order or a graphical custom order may be sent to a supplier in a graphical form that may facilitate order fulfillment. For example a pizza order submitted to a restaurant may illustrate the pizza using discs or sections of discs to show the required distribution for each topping. Textual order information may be transmitted to the supplier with the graphical order information.

Some embodiments may provide systems and methods for avoiding the risk of bad debt. When a user purchases an item or service from a supplier the purchase may be facilitated by an ordering service. The ordering service may receive a commission from the supplier but there is a risk that the supplier may not pay the commission or may pay it late.

Some embodiments may receive from a user an order that includes payment information corresponding to a given payment method e.g. credit card cash house account etc. . If payment by credit card is indicated a supplier s claim for payment from the user s financial institution may be trapped instead of forwarding it to the supplier. The trapped claim may be presented directly to the financial institution and corresponding funds may be received. An amount corresponding to the sale reduced by any commission any receivable funds from other orders purchased for example using non trappable payment methods or any associated service charges may be remitted to the supplier. Systems and methods for defraying costs due to financial institution service charges may be provided.

The present invention may be implemented using any systems or methods suitable for supporting electronic communications over any suitable communications network. Some embodiments may provide for conveying an order from a user to a supplier conveying catalog information from a supplier to a user or performing electronic transactions via an electronic communication network. Users may input orders or other transactions using an access device in communication with the network. For purposes of the descriptions herein suppliers may be businesses individuals or organizations. Suppliers may include retail buyers retail sellers wholesale buyers wholesale sellers restaurants securities brokers stores providers of services or any other business entity or individual.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using non on line client server or peer to peer based approaches. In other embodiments web based or on line approaches may be used. If desired a combination of these approaches may be used. Illustrative on line and non on line based arrangements for an e commerce system are shown in respectively.

In the illustrative on line arrangement of access devices may be connected via links to Internet . Access devices may include any device or combination of devices suitable for providing Internet access to a user of the system. Access devices may include for example any suitable personal computer PC portable computer e.g. a notebook computer palmtop computer handheld personal computer H PC automobile PC personal digital assistant PDA Internet enabled cellular phone combined cellular phone and PDA ebook set top box e.g. a Web TV enabled set top box or other device suitable for providing Internet access.

Internet and application server may be any server suitable for providing on line access to an e commerce web site. Internet and application server may for example provide one or more pages to access devices using one or more suitable protocols e.g. the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . The pages may be defined using for example any suitable markup language e.g. HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HyperText Markup Language DHTML pages defined using the Extensible Markup Language XML JavaServer Pages JSP Active Server Pages ASP or any other suitable approaches . The pages may include scripts computer code or subsets of computer code that define mini programs e.g. Perl scripts Java applets Enterprise JavaBeans EJB or any other suitable approaches . The system may be designed using suitable modular approaches such as for example Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM or any other suitable approach.

Internet and application server may run a database engine suitable for maintaining a database of user order supplier or catalog information such as for example Microsoft SQL Server Oracle 8i or any other suitable database engine. Internet and application server may run Microsoft Internet Information Server. In practice features of Internet and application server may be integrated into a single server or may be distributed across multiple servers that are interconnected via Internet .

Links may include any transmission medium suitable for providing Internet access to access devices . Links may include for example a dial up telephone line a computer network or Internet link an infrared link a radio frequency link a satellite link a digital subscriber line link e.g. a DSL link a cable TV link a DOCSIS link or any other suitable transmission link or suitable combination of such links. Different links may be of different types depending on for example the particular type of access devices .

Any protocol or protocol stack suitable for supporting communications between access devices and Internet and application server over links based on the particular device and link may be used. For example Ethernet Token Group Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Circuit Switched Cellular CSC Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD RAM mobile data Global System for Mobile communications GSM time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA wireless application protocol WAP serial line Internet protocol SLIP point to point protocol PPP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Sequenced Packet Exchange and Internetwork Packet Exchange SPX FPX protocols or any other suitable protocol or combination of protocols may be used.

Database server of may be any computer based system suitable for maintaining a database of user order supplier or catalog information. In particular database server may store attributes of users and suppliers orders order related information and catalog information. Database server may run a database engine suitable for maintaining a database of item information such as for example Microsoft SQL Server Oracle 8i or any other suitable database engine. Database server is shown as being connected to server via Internet and server via network . In practice database server may be connected to server or server using a direct communications link. The features of database server may be provided using a single server distributed across multiple servers or integrated into server or server .

Other steps illustrated in may involve additional processing such as searching grouping calculating generating e mail receiving and assembling order information ordering communicating with other systems or other types of processing. In on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by for example access device Internet and application server or database server depending on for example the processing and storage capabilities of access device the chosen implementation for the markup language documents used the processing requirements of such operations or other factors. In non on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by personal computer remote access device application server database server or distributed among peer applications depending on the chosen system implementation and the processing requirements of such operations.

For clarity the following discussion will describe the steps shown in as being performed by the system which is intended to include any suitable e commerce system such as for example any non on line or on line arrangement suitable for performing the steps. The system may receive orders from internal ordering sites or external ordering sites. Internal sites may be maintained by the system using Internet and application server or application server as shown in respectively . External sites may be maintained independently from the system but may submit orders that comply with standards determined by the system.

When a user places an order using an internal ordering site the system may provide an initial display for at step . The initial display and any subsequent displays may correspond to any preselected themes preferences or requirements associated with the ordering site. Themes preferences or requirements may be determined by the system or by a group of users. The initial display may provide users with opportunities to log in step or may provide users with access to other system features. In some embodiments users may be required to log in by for example entering a user name and a password. In other embodiments users may not be required to log in to access the features of the system.

In step the system may initialize the user s access device by loading portions of a distributed database engine into the access device browser for example. The distributed database engine includes in part a presentation engine for driving a graphical user interface sometimes referred to hereinafter as GUI and a translation engine for decompressing data that are to be received from the system.

In step the system may receive an indication of the user s location. The location is a geographic place where the user is located or where the user desires to receive or receive delivery of ordered supplies. The system may provide the user with a list of suppliers that are close to the user s location for convenience economy or any other reason.

In step the system may choose a list to provide to the user. The list may include suppliers that correspond to preselected preferences associated with the ordering site through which the user entered the system . Alternatively the system may provide the user with a list that corresponds to the user s location. If the system may provide a list known from prior transactions to correspond to the user s location archived location list or it may use a geozoning engine to map the user s location into geographic coordinates and retrieve or generate a list of suppliers corresponding to those coordinates.

In steps and the user may select a supplier and the system may receive an indication of the selection. In step the system may provide a catalog from the selected supplier to the user. In step the system may receive an indication that the user desires to place a group order. If so the user is referred to as a host user and the system may generate distribute and manage invitations to other users hereinafter invitees to gather order information from the members of a group. Group orders may be processed using e mail engine for distributing invitations group order holding bin for receiving and holding orders from members of the group and group order status engine for monitoring the status of orders and invitations and providing status information to the host user. If no group order is requested step may be skipped.

In step the system may receive order information from the user. In the case of a group order the system may already have ordering information for example in group ordering bin . When the system receives order information it may receive accounting codes for accounting and reporting purposes. Accounting codes may be especially useful if the user is a member of a group that monitors ordering activity of its member users. Graphical custom order may provide methods of receiving order information in step that involve manipulating graphical representations of items and customized features on a user s display such as display device .

In step the system may receive orders from ordering sites external to the system provided that the site is approved for ordering from the system and that the order complies with an open catalog standard hereinafter OCS that may be defined and distributed by the system. Internal orders may be stored in a database in step . When the system is compensated by suppliers in the form of a commission in connection with a sale of supplies to a user the system may selectively trap credit card claims using credit card pricing logic step . Trapped credit card claims may be submitted to the user s financial institution. When the financial institution remits funds to the system the system can transfer the funds less commission due to the supplier.

In step order information may be output. Order information may be output to a supplier by any communications device or link including e mail fax phone or mail . Order information may be output to authorized users including administrative users of a user group in the form of reports that may be generated in connection with accounting codes or user attributes . Push engine may be used to provide a continuous display of order information at various stages of the ordering process to authorized users e.g. customer service representatives . For example different authorized users of push engine may have permission to view orders in different stages of the process or orders from different users or user groups.

When the source of an order is an OCS compliant external site orders may be stored in an order information database step as in the case of orders from internal sites. OCS compliant external orders may be output in step in a manner similar to the output of internal orders. In some embodiments OCS compliant sites may not need credit card pricing logic since suppliers may have financial arrangements with the OCS compliant external sites that are independent of the system. In some embodiments step may follow step .

Some embodiments of the present invention may provide users with locally searchable supplier information catalog information or a combination thereof. The information may be transferred to the user s access device and searched for example in a browser using specialized functions that may be supplied by the ordering service. A user may browse or search the information and perform various functions locally thereby transferring the processing burden of these functions from the server to the client device.

Supplier information may include but is not limited to name information address information service information hours of operation information catalog information critique information parking information and any other information that may be relevant to a user s decision to order from a given supplier. These types of information are generic and may be suitable for many different types of suppliers. In some embodiments supplier information may include information suitable to a specific type of supplier. For example when a supplier is a food supplier relevant supplier information may include cuisine information delivery information take out information hours of operation information menu information attire information atmosphere information and restaurant review information. A supplier information data set may include graphical information so that a user can view the appearance of the supplier s facilities supplies or personnel.

Users may be prompted for their location e.g. address Zip code or other indication of location . In some embodiments a special data set of supplier information may be selected or generated that includes suppliers within a predetermined distance from the user.

After providing the supplier information a request from the user to view a catalog from one of the suppliers may be received. The ordering service may provide the user with a locally searchable and browsable data set comprising catalog information

Catalog information for a given item may include for example name information identification number information including any relevant model number or SKU number size information color information material information inventory information including indications of whether or what quantity of an item is stocked customization information including optional features extra features or personalization information . These types of information may be suitable for many different types of suppliers. In some embodiments catalog information may include information suitable for a specific type of supplier.

For example when a supplier is a food supplier catalog information may include entree information side dish information beverage information dessert information special item or entree information catering information including information regarding availability and pricing of catering services and grocery information including information about packaged foods produce meat and other grocery supplies . Catalog information may include graphical or video information e.g. TIFF files GIF files JPG files MPEG files bitmaps or any other suitable graphic or video files so that a user can view for example the appearance of the supplier s facilities supplies or personnel.

An order which may include for example one or more items one or more options or customized features one or more services or one Or more payment methods selected from the supplier s catalog may be received from the user. The order may be stored in a database and the order or related information is transmitted to the supplier selected by the user.

Some order sites may provide users with order related content. The order related content for a given site may be keyed to cuisine location business promotion or any other theme or interest. Order site may require that users have permission to order from the sites. For example public site may be open to users from the general public. Order module in order site may receive order information from users and transmit order information to order server . Public sites may be provided by a service provider to facilitate or promote the sale services or products provided by a given supplier or family of suppliers or for any other reason.

Order sites may provide users with the ability to order supplies from suppliers that may be selected for each site according to a variety of supplier characteristics or site requirements. For example a site may provide a user with the ability to order from suppliers that are located in a given area or whose supplies meet preset site criteria which may be related to site content or business interests.

Groups of users that have common interests business or accounting requirements may be given common permissions to order from a group order site. For example order site provided with order module is a group site for Group Y of users . Site may be restricted to use only by users who are members of Group Y. Site is an unadministered group site because Group Y does not include an administrative user. Unadministered group sites may be suitable for organizations such as colleges and universities clubs associations unions companies or interest groups that may benefit from consolidating orders and gaining access to preselected suppliers.

Order site may be an administrated site for Group X of users . Order module may provide special content and ordering features to members of Group X. Group X may include one or more administrative users such as administrative user . Administrative user may have permission to access administration module of site . Administration module may be used to add delete or edit content or features provided by order module .

Administrative user may use administrative module to add delete edit and manage user information for Group X users and general Group X information that may be stored by administration engine . User information may include identification permission location information and any other information relating to Group X users. Group X information may include supplier selections accounting codes house account information billing information and any other information related to customized use of system by Group X users.

Accounting engine may receive order information from order server in connection with orders placed by members of Group X. For example administrative user may generate reports detailing orders including e.g items ordered order costs and billing particulars placed by a given user or user subgroup. Administrative user may use accounting engine to receive and analyze order information. An administered site such as site may be used by companies firms divisions departments partnerships associations agencies subsidiaries or any other organization or sub organizational unit or entity.

Suppliers may be organized into families such as Family A and Family B for convenience or economy. Suppliers that are members of Family A for example may share common catalog information. For example one joint catalog may be registered in file server while more than one of users in Family A may be capable of fulfilling an order from the joint catalog. A user placing an order from system for an item in a Family A catalog may therefore be able to receive delivery of merchandise from any supplier in Family A. The determination of which supplier within Family A actually fulfills the order may be made based on proximity inventory or the preference of user .

In this example Family A further includes administrative supplier . Administrative supplier may be an individual or group of individuals appointed to provide catalog information to system and manage orders received from system . System may provide administrative supplier with tools for submitting Family A catalog information to file server editing or managing Family A catalog information in file server or implementing rules that determine which of suppliers in Family A may fulfill a given order from a user . An administered family such as Family A may be used by companies firms divisions departments partnerships associations agencies subsidiaries or any other organizations or sub organizational units or entities that may benefit from the ability to manage one or more joint catalogs or from access to family information from accounting engine .

Family B is an example of an unadministered supplier family. Unadministered supplier families may be used by companies firms divisions departments partnerships associations agencies subsidiaries or any other organizations or sub organizational unit or entities that may benefit from the convenience or economy of sharing a common catalog but for whom the functions of an administrative supplier are unnecessary.

Some embodiments of the invention may transfer catalog information order information or other suitable transaction information between end users e.g. consumers and remote computers e.g. suppliers using standard data formats. In some of these embodiments an open standard such as an Open Catalog Standard OCS is generally represented in steps and of . In accordance with embodiments of the invention having OCS features an ordering service may provide standard data formats for receiving orders for supplies submitting orders to suppliers receiving catalog information from suppliers and transmitting catalog information to users.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention an ordering system may receive process index compress and or store catalog information from a plurality of vendors or suppliers. The ordering system may provide an OCS to enable users to view the catalog information interpret or translate compressed or encoded catalog information.

Some embodiments may provide users with standard data formats for creating and submitting orders. A user which may be an independent ordering site may be qualified or certified by the ordering service as an authorized or approved user. Certification authorization or approval may involve due diligence auditing or other measures for ascertaining credit worthiness technical compliance data quality control or assurance and data freshness. The ordering service may require in addition to certification and compliance with ordering standards that a user present a password or an encrypted key. In some embodiments keys may be provided to users upon initial approval. Users may include keys in an HTTP header or any packet of data transferred with a recognized protocol. Some embodiments may receive encrypted transmissions of orders or catalog information.

Additionally the ordering service may provide an approved user or ordering site with permission and any codes necessary to request updated catalog information from a given supplier.

The addition of secure interface may enable server module to provide ordering services to external ordering sites such as external ordering site that are outside of ordering system .

Site may receive orders from external users using for example external order module . Order module may be of any design or architecture including designs or architectures that differ from those of internal sites such as sites or any other internal sites that may be included in system .

In some embodiments external site may be provided with permission protocols or standards necessary to submit orders to system for example along path . External users may be identifiable or completely anonymous to system . System may treat orders received from users as if they originate at ordering site although suppliers may ship deliver or otherwise provide services and supplies directly to users . Billing procedures used in connection with internal sites including credit card pricing methods discussed below may be used in connection with receipt of OCS orders from external sites not shown in . Although administrative engine and accounting engine are shown communicating with server module the functions of these engines may be reserved for users ordering through internal sites.

Supplier may be provided with filter that supplier can use to translate OCS order information into a format compatible with information system of supplier . Filter may include an application programming interface and OCS requirements or explanations of OCS requirements. Filter may translate catalog information from the format of information system to OCS catalog information for uploading to file server .

External ordering site may request catalog information from server module and receive OCS catalog information from file server . Filter may translate OCS catalog information into a catalog information format used by server module .

Secure interface may accept only OCS order requests accompanied by an encrypted key. Secure interface may require that the encrypted key be received from an approved external ordering site.

Some embodiments of the present invention may include a distributed database engine hereinafter referred to as DDBE . In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in steps and of . The DDBE may distribute searching sorting grouping translation or other processes from a centralized database or database server to a user access device. Some embodiments of the DDBE are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 245 503 filed Nov. 3 2000 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

Features of some embodiments of the DDBE involve providing users with opportunities to interact with the system performing various processes or providing various displays. These and other steps may be performed by for example a client application that is programmed to generate or download screens suitable to provide such opportunities an Internet browser that downloads suitable pages to provide such opportunities peer applications or using any other suitable approach. In an on line arrangement access device as shown in for example may be used to run client based applications. In non on line arrangements personal computer as shown in for example may be used to run client based applications.

Other features of the DDBE may involve additional processing such as searching sorting grouping calculating exchanging information and processing code or other types of processing. In on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by access device Internet and application server or database server depending on for example the processing and storage capabilities of access device the chosen implementation for the markup language documents used the processing requirements of such operations or other factors. In non on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by personal computer remote access device application server database server or distributed among peer applications depending on the chosen system implementation and the processing requirements of such operations.

The DDBE may be used however for any data having any type of information content. For example data content may include catalog information financial information reference information bibliographic information accounting information scientific information medical information genetic information cartographic information industrial process information forensic information sporting information leisure and travel information news information entertainment information or any other type of suitable information.

For the sake of simplicity and not of limitation the DDBE will be illustrated herein in the context of an Internet based system for providing restaurant information and opportunities to order food on line. In particular this feature will be illustrated using the example of providing restaurant information and ordering services to prospective customers.

A server may provide files from a database and provide any necessary searching functionality to a user s access device. A user may obtain search results from a local search in milliseconds. In some architectures the interaction between a web server or a front end type of server and the database server from which the web server receives data is usually a significant bottleneck in the flow of data to user access devices. In this distributed database engine feature for the placement of a given order the database is preferably hit only twice once when the user logs in and once when the user orders. The web server is preferably hit only three times once when the user is located as discussed below once when the user selects a restaurant menu and once when the user orders.

Presentation layer may be loaded to present data to a user and receive selections and instructions from a user. Data processing layer may be loaded to provide for example a search functions that extract data from the object layer and route data to the presentation layer and b analysis functions that receive presentation layer instructions for analyzing object layer objects or search results. It will be appreciated that additional layers of code may be loaded into an access device browser as necessary.

Data and processing techniques involving data exchange sorting grouping searching compressing decompressing presenting or other processes in accordance with some embodiments of the DDBE will be illustrated in the context of organizing and distributing restaurant information to a user.

A restaurant information database may be assembled by collecting and codifying restaurant information. Restaurant information has fields or elements that may include but are not limited to restaurant name information restaurant address information restaurant cuisine information restaurant services information such as delivery or take out services restaurant hours information restaurant menu information restaurant attire information restaurant parking information restaurant location information restaurant atmosphere information restaurant review information restaurant other information or any suitable combination thereof.

The restaurant information database or other database suitable to the chosen embodiment may be grouped into logical groupings. For example restaurants may be grouped by geographical locations. Accordingly users can locate themselves identify their location and the database server may limit the transferred data possibly upon the web server s request to a group containing restaurant information that is relevant to the customer location. Restaurant information for each of the relevant restaurants may be processed or preprocessed into highly optimized text files usable for searching summarizing and grouping. Processing or preprocessing may occur before logical grouping after logical grouping or both.

In some embodiments of the invention data may be stored compressed or downloaded to a user s browser in binary format. In some embodiments of the invention data may be stored compressed or downloaded to a user s browser in text format. shows an illustrative example of data record in a compressed text format. Record may correspond to an individual restaurant and may include reference number restaurant name restaurant street address cuisine identifier restaurant attributes hours of operation information field delimiter and record delimiters . As shown in fields such as reference number cuisine identifier restaurant attributes and hours of operation may be stored and transmitted in base 62 digits. Record may include variable width fields e.g. restaurant name and fixed width fields e.g. a fixed number of characters indicating cuisine . Variable width fields VWFs may be delimited by field delimiters such as field delimiters . Fixed width fields FWFs may be grouped logically together to avoid the need for delimiters between those fields.

When a field includes multiple attributes the multiple attributes may be represented using bit masks. For example a field containing restaurant services information may need to include more than one service. Accordingly each service may be assigned a digit in a binary structure. To represent multiple services simultaneously the sum of the digits corresponding to each of the included services may be included in the restaurant services field. For example if eat in 1 take out 2 delivery 4 and on line ordering 8 then eat in and take out and on line ordering 11. For example restaurant attributes field may include 4 base 62 digits. The first may represent services offered the second may represent average meal price and the third and fourth may represent attributes such as non smoking romantic or kosher.

Multi digit integers such as a large or potentially large bit masks or reference numbers may be converted into base 62 digits. Base 62 digits are obtained using the 26 upper case alphabetical characters the 26 lower case alphabetical characters and the 10 1 digit numbers. Together these 62 characters can be used to represent the numbers 0 to 61 or alternatively 1 to 62 . Base 62 may be useful in Internet based approaches because these characters are typically not reserved by standard browsers or programming languages.

Base 62 numbers may be converted to base 10 by using a one dimensional array consisting of 62 elements. Each element of the array contains one of the 62 base 62 characters as described above . The elements of the array maintained in a standard order to enable consistent conversions may associate each base 62 digit with the base 10 value corresponding to the position of the base 62 digit in the array. Accordingly each digit of a given base 62 number may be read and converted to base 10 value using the array. The base 10 values resulting from the conversion of the individual base 62 digits are summed to arrive at the base 10 number corresponding to the original base 62 number. The conversion from base 62 to base 10 may be achieved using a formula such as 62 where Dis the ith digit in a base 62 number of length I and A D gives the base 10 value of the position of Din the 62 element array. The same method may be used to convert from any base N where N is an arbitrary integer.

Hours of operation information may include hours of operation of a restaurant for each day of the week and may be further optimized. Each day of the week may be viewed separately by a user but days whose hours match the hours of other days may be grouped together. For example hours of operation field also referred to as a TimeDef may contain information such as M W F 10 30 a.m. to 8 00 p.m. The restaurant hours information may then be represented with a bit mask e.g. 1 Sunday 2 Monday 4 Tuesday etc. . Bit masks of days having like hours may be summed and converted to base 62. Using the present invention most groups of days having like hours can be represented using one character and may never require more than two .

Hours may be generalized or rounded to the most appropriate half hour. Half hour rounding is accurate enough for the general search by a user actual restaurant hours of operation may be viewable in the form of summary information . For search purposes one base 62 digit may be used to represent the starting half hour for any day or group of days. Only 48 digits are required to represent the 48 half hours in a 24 hour day. 

An additional base 62 digit may be used to represent the duration of hours of operation. Duration may be included in restaurant hours information and therefore in TimeDef . As a result of the aforementioned compression methods restaurant hours information for an entire week may be represented using 3 to 12 characters usually no more than 8 characters are required . Also using a preliminary search function which may operate automatically in the user s browser restaurants may automatically be labeled as open or closed before the user has even selected a search criterion.

In some embodiments of the DDBE data and functions for example JavaScript functions may be organized using data structures. Data structures that may be used in connection with some embodiments of the DDBE may include but are not limited to data objects that represent 1 a system engine for holding state variables of an entire ordering process including values of data objects that follow 2 a user 3 a location e.g. a fixed place from which a user places an order or receives delivery 4 hours of operation 5 cuisine or other inventory attributes 6 a supplier list e.g. of records of restaurants or other suppliers 7 a restaurant or other supplier 8 a menu or catalog 9 a category e.g. subset of a menu or catalog 10 an item e.g. a menu item or catalog item 11 a group of options an option an extra or any other customization feature and 12 a payment method or payment e.g. cash credit card house account and or requisite purchaser information .

Data structures may include for example request data structures for requesting transmission of a given type of data from a host server command data structures for initiating a data process in a given layer locally or in the host server and any other structures necessary for data processing and exchange.

Data structures may include search and analysis functions for local database searching and browsing. Search functions may encoded for example in JavaScript in the script library.

Data structures may be stored in the browser in the form of data objects that form an object layer. Data structures may be stored encoded in the main browser page searched or browsed locally and exchanged with a host server as necessary for selection and submission of an order.

Search results may be dynamically presented to the customer using the presentation layer. The presentation layer may contain drawing functions utilizing DHTML or other presentation logic such as that available from Macromedia Inc. of San Francisco Calif. under the name Macromedia Flash .

A user may select items and options from a restaurant to form an order. Order information may be gathered in a text format and maintained in the local browser until the customer submits an order e.g. by clicking on a Submit Button.

When an order is submitted it may be passed as a single string to the web server with suitable compression. An application server may then process the order by communicating order information to the restaurant and may return confirmation information or other follow up information to the user.

In some embodiments of the DDBE special functions that modify delete or replace the features or capabilities of the DDBE may be loaded as necessary. Referring for example to functions may be downloaded to alter the functionality of presentation engine data processing engine or translation engine . In some of these embodiments data in other parts of the object structure including for example object layer may be manipulated. For example a line of code for example in JavaScript that references a particular object in the object layer and changes the value of one or more object attributes may be downloaded.

In some embodiments of the DDBE compressed data for example compressed data files or compressed data as shown in may include or be packaged together with functions that are selected or preselected to provide functionality related to the compressed data or a request for the data originating from the user the user s browser or the user s access device. For example compressed data including information about a restaurant and its menu may be packaged together with a function for drawing the menu that differs from a DDBE default menu drawing function that was previously loaded in the browser. This type of function may be used for example when all members of a chain of restaurants are required to use a standard menu display.

In some embodiments this feature of the DDBE may be used to provide different user interface features or capabilities. For example specialized presentation layer functions may be downloaded to provide displays and data entry tools for Group Ordering or Graphical Custom Orders as discussed below.

In step the system may receive catalog data from suppliers and input the catalog data into a database. In step one or more special functions may be identified for providing specialized presentation analysis or other special features or for setting values of structures in a DDBE object layer. If no specialized DDBE functionality is desired the process may skip to step . If specialized DDBE functionality is desired required specialized DDBE code may be retrieved from a database or input from any other suitable source in step . In step the catalog data may be compressed. In step compressed catalog data may be packaged with any special DDBE code for transmission to the DDBE of a user s browser. On receipt of a request for supplier information from a user step the packaged data and code may be downloaded to the user s browser step . The downloaded code may provide DDBE functionality related for example to DDBE processes data decompression or translation data presentation data analysis . The downloaded code may also modify the ways processes interact with each other DDBE modification .

In some embodiments the invention may provide systems and methods for selectively replacing content in a display of a web page that is displayed by a user access device. In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in step of . The display may be driven by a browser that presents the web page to a user. The content of the display may be replaced by data from a server in communication with the access device via an electronic communication network.

The server may provide data destined to replace content of the display to the browser for storage in a frame of the browser. The data may be provided in the format of a web page. The frame may be a hidden frame. Subsequently selected portions of the display content may be replaced with data from the hidden frame without requiring a viewable page refresh. Periodically the frame using any commonly available browser refresh function may poll the server for updated data. Browser resident functions may be provided by the server to selectively replace display content with fresh data from the hidden frame. These functions may form the core of a Push Engine for updating the display. A similar push engine is described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 205 filed Mar. 22 2000 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments of the invention that include the Push Engine the user may be substantially continuously provided with current information provided by an ordering system without interruption by a viewable page refresh. The Push Engine may be used to display order information which may include any data relevant to an order including but not limited to information about the order originator the supplier or intended supplier the item or services ordered billing information and order processing information. Any data generated by an order originator a supplier any other system user or the ordering system itself may be displayed using the Push Engine.

In certain embodiments it may be desirable to permit a given user to view only limited information. For example the Push Engine may be used as an order tracker for use by an order originating user. After placing an order using the system an order originating user may use the Push Engine to substantially continuously observe the status of the order. The order originator may be limited to viewing only information related to the content of the order e.g. particulars of the items or services ordered or the status of the order e.g. received by supplier or order delivery in progress .

The Push Engine may be used by a supplier to receive orders. For example the Push Engine may provide warehouse personnel with real time displays of orders to improve order fulfillment efficiency. As another example the Push Engine may be used in the kitchen of a restaurant to provide workers with order information as soon as the restaurant receives it. In these examples suppliers may be permitted to view only the order information required for fulfillment for example item numbers quantities required and delivery methods. Supplier accounting personnel may be permitted to see billing information in addition to order content information.

Additionally the Push Engine may be used by a customer service representative for overseeing the progress of an order in connection with assisting customers and solving order processing problems. A customer service representative may need to view a broader scope of data than an order originating user or a supplier.

Push engine may include automatic refresh request generator which may include a built in automatic refresh function of browser . Automatic refresh request generator may generate an unverified request for a frame refresh for hidden frame . The unverified request may be passed through request filter to generate a verified request that may include any browser state variables push engine state variables which may include current data frame URLs permission levels for user or any other information necessary to specify the required information or data format or order server variables that may be necessary for order server to process the request.

Order server may continuously receive updated order information from an order database server e.g. database server shown in that provides data from an order database not shown . The order database may include records from every order received from an ordering system such as system shown in . Therefore when order server receives a verified request from push engine order server may fulfill the request by sending current data back to push engine .

Translation engine in push engine may receive compressed data from order server and decompress the compressed data into data objects that may fill object layer . Presentation engine may selectively replace portions of content with data from object layer . This may generate a display that has portions that may appear to be dynamically updated.

In some embodiments features of push engine may be modified by downloading specialized functions to browser from a server not shown that may be linked to order server . For example presentation engine object layer and translation engine may be modified using downloaded functions in accordance with principles of the DDBE described above.

Some embodiments may select suppliers according to the locations of a user and prospective suppliers. In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in steps of . In some approaches geographical areas may be divided into regions. A supplier inside or on the border of the region associated with a user s location can be identified and presented to the user. The borders of the region may be selected to exclude suppliers that are located more than a preselected distance from the user s location. The preselected distance may be selected based on convenience to the user or the supplier. The preselected distance may be chosen to include a suitable number of suppliers from which the user may choose.

Borders may be selected to conform to defined areas of a given economic market state city county range and township area municipality neighborhood borough or region bounded by a given roadway river or other cartographic feature. Suppliers may be presented to the user in a list arranged in order of ascending or descending distance from the user.

Locations of users addresses of suppliers and borders of regions may be defined using latitude and longitude or other geodetic coordinates. Coordinates will be used hereinafter to refer to latitude and longitude. After a region is defined suppliers whose coordinates fall within the region may be selected and presented to the user.

Some embodiments of the invention may include determining if a user lies within one or more delivery areas of a supplier. Delivery areas May be defined by suppliers using factors other than proximity of the supplier to the user including but not limited to those features that may be used to define a region as discussed above. A supplier may have different delivery areas having different delivery charges. In some of these embodiments the user may have a location and a zone that includes the location. The zone is an area that may be defined by using any suitable method to determine high precision estimates of the coordinates of the location. After the coordinates are determined the coordinates may be rounded or truncated to lower precision and used to represent the zone as a polygon. The lower precision coordinates may be used as midpoints of line segments or endpoints of line segments forming a trapezoidal polygon for rounding and truncating methods respectively . Another way to define a zone is to use pre existing zones e.g. United States Postal Service Zip Codes.

The first step in determining if the user is located within a delivery area is to test if the zone is within the delivery area. If the zone is within the delivery area the user location is also within the delivery area. If the zone is outside of the delivery area the location is also outside of the delivery area.

A zone may be partially within a delivery area and partially outside of the area. In this case a polygon may be identified that is defined by an area of overlap between the delivery area and the zone. Any suitable technique may then be used to determine if the user location is in the overlapping polygon. If the user location lies within the overlap polygon the user lies within the supplier delivery area. If the user location does not lie within the overlap polygon the user is not located within the supplier delivery area.

The system may present the user with supplier information that includes delivery service information. Calculation of truncated coordinates any necessary vertices of delivery areas and the determination if a zone lies within or without a delivery area may be made by a system processor or geozoning engine. The system may then provide to a user a delivery attribute indicating delivery status e.g. Does Deliver Does not Deliver May Deliver or Delivers at cost of X.XX where X.XX may be a delivery charge determined for the user s location . Taxation rates applicable to sales in a delivery area may be retrieved e.g. from a database for calculating amounts receivable in connection with an order or for accounting purposes.

In some embodiments delivery information may be archived with supplier information for a given zone. For example once a list of suppliers is associated with a given zone based on distance convenience or any other relevant factor delivery information for each supplier in the list may be incorporated into the list. The list may then be stored in an optimized compressed or otherwise processed form. Subsequently the system may rapidly provide the list to any user from the same zone.

For suppliers whose delivery area overlaps the zone a user in the zone may receive a May Deliver attribute. The system may provide a function for locally calculating e.g. in the user s access device via a browser delivery in accordance with the methods described above. The calculation may be performed automatically in the browser of a user s access device. Additional efficiency may be obtained by storing and transferring coordinates in a compressed format for example using a base 62 mathematical mapping.

If server receives location information corresponding to a location that is new to system server may pass location information to geozoning engine . Geozoning engine may use any suitable algorithm to convert location information into geodetic coordinates.

If user is a member of a group the list retrieval process may be expedited. For example shows that users may be members of Group X or Group Y. shows that geozoning engine determines if user is a member of a group. If user is a member of a group geozoning engine checks to see if the user and the group which may itself be associated with a location have a shared location in the user zone. If there is a shared location geozoning engine may take the existing supplier list identification code from a data object that includes attributes of the group associate it with the new user location and pass the supplier list identification code back to server . The list corresponding to the supplier list identification code may then be presented to the user.

When geozoning engine determines that a user such as user shown in is not a member of a group a default list may be presented to user . Each zone served by system of may be associated with a supplier list and a corresponding supplier list identification code. Geozoning engine may associate the default supplier list identification code with the new user location pass the default supplier list identification code to server . Server may then present the corresponding list to the user.

Coordinates of vertices of overlap area and coordinates of location may be transmitted to a user for local determination of whether location lies within overlap area . If location lies within overlap area the supplier does deliver to the location. shows that the local determination may be performed for example by distributed database engine using data processing engine in browser . In some embodiments delivery charge or tax rate determinations for May Deliver suppliers may be performed locally.

For clarity the following discussion will describe the steps shown in as being performed by the system which is intended to include any suitable e commerce system such as for example any non on line or on line arrangement suitable for performing the steps.

The system may preprocess lists of suppliers in step . Preprocessing may involve gathering supplier information in step . Supplier information may include for example supplier names addresses delivery areas. The system may then divide a geographic region of users and suppliers into zones step . A geographic region may be for example a major metropolitan area a rural county or any other cartographically definable region. In step the system may generate zone default lists for each zone. A zone default list is a list of suppliers and supplier information for suppliers assigned to the zone. Suppliers may be assigned to zones on the basis of proximity between suppliers and users marketing distribution channels or any other basis. A supplier may be assigned to more than one zone.

In step the system may determine delivery attributes for each supplier on each zone default list. Delivery attributes may indicate whether or not the supplier delivers everywhere in the zone corresponding to the zone default list in which the supplier is included. If the zone falls entirely within the delivery area the delivery attribute may be set to Does Deliver. If the zone falls entirely outside of the delivery area the delivery attribute may be set to Does Not Delivery. If the zone and the delivery area overlap the delivery attribute may be set to May Deliver. In step delivery information including delivery attributes and related information may be added to the zone default lists in connection with the respective suppliers.

If a delivery attribute is Does Deliver or Does Not Deliver the system may add the appropriate attribute to the zone default lists step . If a delivery attribute is May Deliver the system may add the May Deliver attribute to the zone default lists step . The system may determine coordinates defining the region of overlap between the zone and the delivery area step and add the coordinates to the zone default lists. Delivery attributes and coordinates may be added to the list in compressed form using bit masking for delivery attributes truncation or rounding for coordinates and conversion to base N digits wherein N may be any integer .

In step the system may receive an indication of a user location. In step the system may provide the user with a zone default list corresponding to the user s indicated location. Step may include presenting the list using features of a distributed database engine. In step the system may download any data processing tools necessary for ascertaining whether suppliers with a May Deliver delivery attribute do or do not deliver. The data processing tools may be downloaded to a user s access device as compressed data objects. Data processing tools may be decompressed and activated using features of a distributed database engine.

In step the data processing tools are used in the user s access device to ascertain for each May Deliver supplier on the provided zone default list if May Deliver suppliers deliver to the user s location or not. This determination may be made for example by determining if the user s location falls within the region of overlap encoded into the zone default list in step .

In step the system may present the user with affirmative or negative indications that indicate whether or not a supplier on the zone default list delivers to the user s location. Step may utilize the presentation engine features of the distributed database engine. Step may include receiving a user indication of a selection of a supplier and presenting the user with a message such as Delivers To You or Does Not Deliver To You. 

Some embodiments of the present invention may include an accounting codes feature. In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in steps and of . Some embodiments of the accounting code feature are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 245 826 filed Nov. 3 2000 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 259 563 filed Jan. 2 2001 Attorney Docket No. ATG 6 PROV2 both of which are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety.

Accounting codes may be used in connection with an ordering system such as ordering system as shown in by users administrative users and any other users who need to track orders or associated billing information. Some aspects of this feature may involve providing users with opportunities to interact with the system performing various processes or providing various displays. These and other steps may be performed by for example a client application that is programmed to generate or download screens suitable to provide such opportunities an Internet browser that downloads suitable pages to provide such opportunities peer applications or using any other suitable approach. In an on line arrangement access device for example may be used to run client based applications. In non on line arrangements personal computer for example may be used to run client based applications.

Other aspects of this feature may involve additional processing such as searching grouping calculating generating reports and communicating with other systems or other types of processing. In on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by access device Internet and application server or database server depending on for example the processing and storage capabilities of access device the chosen implementation for the markup language documents used the processing requirements of such operations or other factors. In non on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by personal computer remote access device application server database server or distributed among peer applications depending on the chosen system implementation and the processing requirements of such operations.

For the sake of simplicity and not of limitation the accounting codes feature will be illustrated herein in the context of an Internet based system for providing restaurant information and opportunities to order food on line. This feature of the invention may be used however in connection with the placement of orders for any type of services or merchandise. In particular this feature will be illustrated using the example of providing restaurant information and ordering services to users of Group X using illustrative system as shown in . System may be a simplified version of system as shown in .

In the context of this feature of the invention a group may be any organization or entity having member users that issue orders to vendors of merchandise supplies materials or services and in which the organization desires to track those orders according to the organization s activities functions affiliates patrons or clients. Groups and relationships between groups and users are discussed above. 

Tracking orders and order patterns of users can be important for increasing organizational efficiency and minimizing losses including those due to error and fraud . Some embodiments of this feature may provide systems and methods for increasing organizational efficiency and for minimizing losses in connection with the placement of orders. Accordingly some embodiments of this feature may provide systems and methods for identifying orders or portions of orders and relating them to associated information using accounting codes.

When user places an on line order system may prompt user for any appropriate order information. Order module in group X ordering site may provide user with a user interface features for exchanging information with system . The user interface features may be provided through presentation engine of DDBE as shown in .

Order data entry forms and accounting code fields may be provided to users for entering expensing data in connection with orders. Expensing data may be in the form of accounting codes. A user may enter any appropriate accounting codes. System may prompt user to assign one or more accounting codes to a given order. Order expenses may be divided or split among multiple accounting codes according to cost specific items or services accounting code groups in cases where codes are logically grouped according to organizational functions e.g. client or department any other accounting function or code or a combination thereof.

Accounting codes may be stored with order information which may include electronic transaction receipts . Order information may be saved and indexed for example in a database or other data storage device. Some embodiments of the invention may provide reporting functions to search the stored order information. Reporting processes may be run using accounting engine . Accounting engine may include a database for order and accounting information. Accounting engine may receive order and accounting information from order server . Administrative user may use administrative module in Group X site to submit requests for data analysis reports or other information products to accounting engine . Reports and data may be returned to administrative user using administration module or any other means which may include e mail fax or postal service.

Administrative user who may be a system administrator organization accountant or other designee of Group X may request reports in connection with a variety of analyses. For example system may provide administrative user reports for any given time period order placement history patterns and costs associated with given users accounting codes suppliers and projects.

Administrative user may customize an expensing program for Group X interactively using a administration module . For example administrative user may provide the names of expense codes e.g. Client Code Matter Code User Code and Project Code and formatting parameters of the codes e.g. the number or type of characters in a code . Administrative user may provide to accounting engine and may periodically update a list of current and valid accounting codes. The list may be keyed in at web site or uploaded to accounting engine from a user access device. The accounting code list may be used to validate codes entered by users .

Administrative user may activate an expense code validation process based on a list of valid and current expense codes. The validation process may run in accounting engine in connection with codes received by order server from order module . After user enters a code to expense an order the code may be checked against the list of valid and current codes. If user enters a code that is not included in the valid code list user may be informed that the codes are not listed. The company or service provider may choose to allow the user to enter the order using the invalid code or to change the code. If an order is placed using an unlisted or otherwise invalid code the order may be flagged for later investigation and an electronic mail notification of the suspect transaction may be sent automatically to administrative user or the Group X accounting department.

Administrative user may provide text or other information to accounting engine that describes Group X s order expensing policies. The policy oriented text or any other text may be presented to users when they log in or enter accounting codes using order module . The text may be conveyed to order module via order server or by any other suitable server not shown .

Administrative user may provide a list of users and user identifiers to accounting engine for validation of orders or transactions submitted by users . User e mail addresses may be used as user identifiers. Administrative user may associate each user with one or more permission levels to control access to administrative and accounting functions of the accounting site and to enforce order expensing policies. Each permission level may have a corresponding set of order expensing rules or restrictions. Order expensing rules may impose restrictions based on order related information including but not limited to user position e.g. partner associate or assistant time of day and expense code. For example a rule established at the associate permission level may state that associates can expense 25.00 for dinners between 7 00 p.m. and 1 00 a.m. during weekdays. Another rule may limit the amount that may be expensed for a particular client for a food order.

Using Group X expensing rule information accounting engine may via order server or another server display warnings to user at the time an order is assembled using order module . A warning may be keyed to one or more elements of the order e.g. the permission level or position of user the time of day or the expense codes chosen by user . Administrative user may place special limitations on users expensing privileges in accordance with Group X policy or expensing rules. For example a user s privilege to order via a house account can be turned off in response to abuse by the user.

Users may be enabled to enter a Group X account number for a given restaurant to charge a food order to the corresponding house account. Restaurant account charges and project client and matter expense codes associated with the order may be stored by system and accessed by or transferred to administrative user for subsequent accounting reconciliation and billing tasks. For example at the discretion of administrative user user may charge a personal order to a house account and enter his user identification number and or an appropriate expense code so Group X can subsequently bill user . When a house account is not available user may pay the restaurant for the order using for example cash a personal credit card or a credit card owned by Group X for either a personal order or a Group X order.

In some embodiments of this feature of the invention system may provide a company with a bill consolidating all charges to house accounts made by users of a user group during a given billing period. Accordingly for all of those restaurants holding house accounts for the group the group would receive a single bill and make a single payment for example to the system or a service provider that provides system to users.

When an order is submitted to system by user order information including project client matter and expense splitting codes and information are stored in a database on any suitable storage medium. Subsequently they may be accessed by administrative user for accounting purposes.

Accounting engine which may include an expense reporting engine not shown may generate reports that include any information associated with a given order including the full text of the order. The expense reporting engine may provide summary reports or detail reports. The reports may be viewed printed or downloaded in any suitable format. Accounting data may be accessed by administrative user or other authorized users and reports may be generated 24 hours a day.

A report may list any set of users selected by administrative user . Such a set may include all users in Group X a single user or any subset of users that is useful for Group X accounting purposes or other purposes. Similarly the system may generate reports based on any set or subset of any of the order information elements. For example a report may show only those orders placed with a particular restaurant at a particular time of day or having a particular total. Tools for generating these reports are not shown .

Reports may include an order identifier order I.D. . The order I.D. may be a unique number that may be used throughout the system to identify access group and file orders. The order I.D. may be assigned to an order by order module at the time an order is created. The detailed report also displays any adjustments that may have been made to an order total. Adjustments may be made by administrative user to reconcile accounting discrepancies or correct errors. Reports may highlight ordering activity that violates company rules exceeds predetermined threshold spending values for a given category of spending or uses invalid or outdated expense codes.

Some embodiments of the accounting codes feature of the invention may be implemented in connection with a DDBE Distributed Database Engine using data objects within a layered system architecture to input store index sort display and output order information. Major layers may include a database or data object layer for storing data objects a presentation layer for providing a user interface and a translation layer for moving information between the data object and presentation layers.

Each type of object may include attributes that are necessary for processing information associated with that object. For example a group may be represented by a group object that has attributes including user identifiers and valid expense codes. A user may be represented by a user object that has attributes including position e.g. partner associate clerk . A food order may be represented by an order object that has attributes including menu items total amount and the identifier of the user who placed the order. Order module may use an order engine data object. Data objects may be stored in an object layer or database layer within an user s local browser.

Some embodiments may include an expensing rule processing module that applies expensing rules to order related data objects to enforce organization expensing policies. Functions based on organization expensing rules operate on attributes of relevant data objects and may be evaluated to determine if an order is in compliance with the rules. Rule specific functions may be coded using C like syntax e.g. JavaScript .

Expensing rule functions may be stored in a web or database server within system and transferred to a user s local browser where they may be stored in an object layer of a database. The expensing rule processing module may activate functions and may evaluate them based on the values of predetermined data object attributes. Function activation and evaluation may be localized in the translation layer and function output may be channeled to a user via the presentation layer.

For clarity the following discussion will describe the steps shown in as being performed by the system which is intended to include any suitable e commerce system such as for example any non on line or on line arrangement suitable for performing the steps.

In step the system may receive an indication from a user that an order which may have been entered using a user access device is in final form and that the user is ready to make payment arrangements. Payment may be made either on line e.g. by credit card or house account or off line e.g. by cash or C.O.D. .

In step the system may receive an indication from the user that the user desires to use accounting codes to keep track of expenses connected with the order. If the user does not want to track the expenses the process proceeds to final steps of the process in which the order may be stored submitted to a supplier and reported to an administrative user.

If the user elects to use accounting codes to track the expenses the system may present the user with group expensing policy information step . The system may provide hotlinks to details about group expensing policies or rules that govern the use of accounting codes for users steps and respectively .

In step the system may prompt the user for accounting codes e.g. client codes matter codes project codes employee codes any other relevant codes or any combination thereof . In step the system may receive an indication from the user to split the order expenses between two or more accounting codes. If the system receives an indication to split an order in step the system may receive an indication of a splitting method in step . Splitting methods may include percentage splits e.g. a percentage of the order may be charged to each accounting code amount splits e.g. a selected number of dollars pounds sterling francs etc. may be charged to each accounting code or sub order splits e.g. the system may receive indications of which items in the order are to be charged to each accounting code .

The system may receive any accounting codes associated with the order in step . In step the system may perform validity testing on any submitted codes by comparing the codes to codes listed in a system database by an administrative user. If the codes are deemed invalid e.g. a submitted code is not found in the database or a submitted code is found in the database but is inactive the system may issue a warning to the user in step . The system may issue notices to an administrative user or other authorized individual. If the accounting code is found to be valid in step the system may check if the prospective transaction is permitted according to group rules in step . Group rules may include criteria related to user authority or permission level time of day day of week cost of order budgetary restrictions user usage history or any other criteria or combination of criteria. In step the system may issue warnings or messages similar to those of step . Steps and may loop back to steps and respectively when warnings are required to be issued. Users may be provided with the ability to bypass or override warnings in some of those embodiments.

In step the system may store order information including information related to the user any supplies ordered billing information and accounting codes if any in a database. In step the order may be submitted to a user selected supplier. Any accounting codes may be submitted to the supplier with the order for subsequent accounting purposes. In step the system may report order information which may include accounting codes to an administrative user. A report which may be customized by the administrative user may be made by the system upon the request of the administrative user.

Some embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for using an electronic communication network for placing a graphical custom order for items with a supplier. In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in step of . Items may include consumer products electronics automobiles automobile accessories sporting equipment industrial equipment clothing food items and any other items that may be customized. If items are food items they may include restaurant menu items grocery items specialty food items or other food items. Some embodiments of graphical custom ordering are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 359 filed Mar. 22 2000 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments a food ordering service or system may electronically receive selections of items and corresponding options extras customized features or personalized features from a user using an access device. The user may manipulate graphical features of a display to make the selections. The graphical features may be manipulated by a user input device such as a mouse joy stick keyboard remote control or other cursor control device.

The cursor icon may be converted from a default graphic into a graphical representation of a selected option and positioned near in or on a selected item. In response to a subsequent indication from the user another graphical representation of the selected may be displayed in position in or as part of the selected item. The cursor icon may then be reconverted into a default cursor graphic. By transforming the cursor icon in this way the display illustrates for the user that the user picked up the option from one part of the display dragged it to the selected item and placed it in or on the item. The process may be repeated for each item and for each option the user selects. Text corresponding to the user s selection may also be displayed.

At any point during the assembly of a virtual food item that is to be cooked the ordering service may receive a request from the user to view an image of the item as modified by any or all options in its cooked state. The system may then display a graphical representation of the completed or partially completed food item in its cooked state.

One example of a graphical custom order according to the principles of some embodiments of the invention is a graphical custom order for a pizza. The user may be presented with a virtual menu including graphical representations of pizza. The user may then select a pizza by clicking on a corresponding graphical representation. The user may then be presented with a graphical representation of a basic pizza or with an outline or schematic framework of a pizza. The user may then select elements of the pizza. Selectable elements may include dough and dough options cheese and cheese options sauce and sauce options toppings and topping options crust and crust options size and size options and any other pizza options e.g. seasonings condiments cooking instructions .

Dough options may include plain dough sourdough whole wheat dough multiple grain dough and dough with special additives including e.g. sprouted grains . Pan style dough deep dish style dough or any other form of dough may be included as options.

Cheese options may include cheese types e.g. Parmesan mozzarella or any other type of cheese or combination of cheese types and amounts of each selected cheese.

Sauce options may include sauce types and amount of each type. Sauce types may include tomato sauce clam sauce or any other type of sauce.

Topping options may include for each topping a pizza coverage fraction i.e. what fraction of the pizza a giving topping should cover and a topping amount e.g. a lot or a little .

Pizza size options may include for example options for small medium or large pizzas but sizes may be represented in terms of pizza diameter or thickness.

Some embodiments may provide systems and methods for dividing or sectioning a pizza. This may facilitate custom ordering. The ordering system may electronically receive indications to divide a pizza into more than one section. The system may then receive an indication of one or more of the sections onto which an option is to be applied or distributed. The system may further receive an indication to distribute the option or topping to the selected section.

The system may display a graphical representation of available options. The system may record the selection of an option by including a hotlink in the graphical representation of the option. The hotlink may cause an order data object to record the option. The hotlink may convey appropriate commands to the browser display to modify or replace the cursor graphic with a graphical representation of the option. Selected sections may be graphically transformed to include the option when the cursor is dragged to one or more such section.

The order data object may be updated at the time the option is dragged to or dropped on a selected section of the pizza or at the time the user confirms a completed pizza order.

Some embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for custom order decomposition. Custom order decomposition involves graphically decomposing a pizza into simple components when an order is submitted to a supplier. Custom order decomposition may facilitate order fulfillment. After a graphical representation of a pizza is assembled by a user the ordering system may receive an indication from the user to order the pizza. The ordering system may divide the pizza into layers or partial layers of a given option or attribute and present layer information textually and graphically to a supplier when the order is submitted to the supplier. A partial layer may include for example a layer of a given topping to be distributed over only a specified section of the pizza. The supplier for example a pizza chef may then assemble a pizza in accordance with the order one layer at a time. The pizza chef may assemble a pizza having all the layers and partial layers deposited in a prescribed order and the resulting pizza may thus match the graphically designed pizza.

For example the system may display a circle or a three dimensional disc if the item is a pizza. If the item is a sandwich a layered framework may be presented that allows the user to fill in bread sandwich fillings and condiments. If the item is a flower arrangement the system may display a vase that allows the user to fill in the flowers one stem or stalk at a time. If the item is a fruit basket the system may display a basket that allows the user to fill in pieces of fruit or other food items.

In step the system may display graphical representations of options which may be preselected options for integration into the selected item. In step the system may display an active button to allow the user to divide the selected item into sections or subsections. For example a pizza may have wedge shaped sections a sandwich may have slab shaped sections arranged in a stack and a salad platter may have polygonal sections or cells. In step the system may receive an indication to divide the selected item. If the user indicates that the selected item should be divided the system may divide the display of the selected item into sections. The user may indicate finer degrees of sectioning by repeated clicks on the active button. The user may highlight a displayed section and indicate subdivisioning of the displayed section.

After the selected item is divided into sections step shows that the system may receive an indication from the user to activate a section for applying an option. For example a user may click on a quarter section of a pizza for subsequent application of a topping. The system may highlight the selected quarter section of the pizza. If in step no indication to divide the item is received graphical custom order may skip step and proceed directly to step .

After an item or section of an item has been selected for the application of an option the system may receive an indication of an option selection from the user in step . For example the user may click on a graphical representation of an option displayed in step . When the user clicks on the option the system may convert the cursor graphic to a graphical representation of the option.

In step the system may receive an indication of the application of an option to an item or section. For example the user may drag the representation of an option to a position on top of the item or selection and up click the mouse button. The system may respond by displaying the item or section as it would appear when modified by the dragged option step .

In step the system may receive an indication from the user to finalize the order. If the order is to be finalized the display of the item with any option selected may be transformed into a cooked version of the item step . For example a pizza may appear to have shredded cheese during virtual assembly but would appear to have melted cheese after cooking. Displays of items that do not require cooking may be left in an uncooked state. After finalization the item and any selected options may be recorded in a data object corresponding to the order. The system may transform displays of other items into final form. For example if a user selects an automobile wheel and a tire the system may illustrate the tire as mounted on the wheel and use animation or video to illustrate the tire as it is inflated.

In step the user may choose to select additional options for the selected item section or sub section. The user may also choose to create new divisions in the item. Accordingly graphical custom order may reiterate from step . In step the item as modified by any options may be added to the order.

The pizza can be assembled by adding one layer at a time in numerical order. When options are applied to limited sections of the pizza the outlines may give the relative orientations of the limited sections. For example outlines and correspond to layers having coverage by olives and coverage by green peppers.

In some embodiments of the invention client side user interface functionality for graphical custom orders or order information formatting functionality for custom order decomposition as shown for example in FIGS. and respectively may be provided by downloading special functions to the user s browser. Providing special functions may be accomplished for example using some or all of the DDBE principles illustrated in

In some embodiments of the graphical custom order for example involving pizza the code used to present a customized pizza and associated options may not be necessary for every menu. Accordingly a function used to present a pizza menu using graphical custom order features may involve one or more specialized functions.

In some embodiments of the invention systems and methods for placing group orders with suppliers via an ordering system may be provided. In some of these embodiments this feature is generally represented in steps and of . A group order may be an order that is placed by a group of users of the ordering system. The group order may be initiated by a host user who submits an order accompanied by a list of invitee users hereinafter invitees to the ordering system. The system may forward invitations which may be electronic invitations e.g. e mail invitations to the invitees. The invitation may identify a supplier proposed by the host user. Some embodiments of group ordering are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 359 filed Nov. 3 2000 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

Alternatively the system may suggest a supplier or suppliers that satisfy certain criteria that may be stated by the host user or by one or more of the invitees. One or more preliminary invitations may poll invitees for requirements regarding timing of delivery pricing or type of supplies that are desired. If the invitation is for an event that is to take place at the supplier s location invitee requirements the event time may be polled in a preliminary invitation.

For example a host user may initiate a group order for a lunch meeting at a restaurant within 5 blocks of a downtown office building on a given date and within a given time range but one of the invitees may be invited to select the time while another may be invited to select the restaurant. The ordering system may poll the invitees whose input is required obtain confirmation from the host user and distribute complete invitations which may include deadlines for response to each member of the group.

After complete invitations are distributed invitees may respond by sending an RSVP back to the system indicating for example an acceptance a rejection or that a delayed RSVP is forthcoming. The invitations may include a hotlink to the selected supplier s catalog and invitees may place orders directly with the supplier.

If an order is placed in connection with a deadline a time sensitive delivery or a scheduled event invitee orders may be cached by the system and submitted to the supplier as a unified group order. The group order may be submitted to the supplier as a series of partial orders. The manner in which orders are submitted to the supplier and the submission of an order or orders may be subject to confirmation by the host user. The host user may receive or have system permissions to view order status information indicating which if any invitees have placed orders for inclusion in a group order.

Host user may submit an unverified request to initiate a group order to request filter . Request filter may process the unverified request into a verified request. The verified request may include any system user or order state variables necessary to identify the request as a group order request or to specify permission levels for user . The verified request may include any other variables that may be necessary for order server to process the request. Request filter may format the verified request as necessary for proper processing by order server .

According to some embodiments host user may initiate a group order in connection with an order placed in accordance with methods described elsewhere in this document. A group order may be placed using for example a user interface having displays or data entry screens similar to those illustrated in FIGS. and . Order server may receive an indication from host user that the order should be processed as a group order.

Order server may receive via the verified request indications of invitees that host user desires to include in the group order a deadline for receipt of an RSVP from an invitee a time or time frame for an order event e.g. a time or range of times for picking up supplies meeting at a restaurant or meeting at a designated location to receive delivery from a supplier and a deadline for placing an order. Invitees may be identified by any suitable identification code including but not limited to a login name an e mail address or a given name.

When the verified request for a group order includes a request for an individual order for host user order server may direct host user order information to group order holding in . Group order holding bin may hold the individual host user order while waiting for the submission of corresponding orders from invitees . When the verified request for a group order includes a request to issue one or more invitations order server may direct invitation information e.g. information specifying invitees supplier or particulars relating to an event to e mail engine .

E mail engine may send email invitations to invitees identified by identification codes in the verified request. When identification codes other than e mail addresses are used email engine may search for and find corresponding e mail addresses using a system database server such as database server shown in . Database server may use a user variable identifying user as member of a group or as a user of a given location that is also linked to a user variable corresponding to an invitee.

Invitees may be provided with a hotlink to an ordering site for submitting an order to order server . State variables of the invitation which may be sent by e mail engine in accordance with the verified request may automatically identify each of invitees to order server as an invitee of the group order. Any orders placed by invitees therefore may be held in group order holding bin and associated with the individual order placed by host user .

Group order holding bin may assemble orders from invitees and host user into a single group order for issuance to a supplier. Assembly and issuance of the group order may be initiated by an instruction from host user .

Group orders may include accounting code attributes as described above. In some embodiments accounting codes may be input by host user and invitees at the time their respective orders are submitted to order server . In these embodiments order server may communicate accounting code information to an accounting engine such as accounting engine shown in for later analysis by authorized system users.

Invitees may send an RSVP which may be a hotlink RSVP to host user . RSVPs may be sent to host user or to group order status engine . Group order status engine may track the status of all RSVPs received and all orders placed in connection with the group order. Group order status information may be presented to host user via email or by presenting group order status a web page that host user is permitted to view.

In some embodiments host user may view group order status information using a push engine as described above. When a group order in group order holding bin is deemed sufficiently complete by host user order server may receive a SEND GROUP ORDER request from host user .

In other embodiments host user may request a group order without placing an individual order. Accordingly host user may request an incomplete group order and complete the group order at a later time. For example host user may request an incomplete group order and delay placing an individual order until receiving a response from invitees . If a favorable response is received from invitees host user may complete the order by directly accessing the incomplete order in order server . Alternatively host user may place an order as an invitee via a self addressed invitation requested in connection with the incomplete group order.

If inadequate or an unfavorable response is received host user may send a request to order server that the group order be canceled. E mail engine may send suitable cancellation notifications to invitees .

Some embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for reducing the risk of bad debt that may accrue to a provider of an on line ordering system or service. In some of the embodiments this feature is generally represented in steps and of . An on line ordering system or service provider may agree with a supplier that the provider will facilitate a sale of supplies or services by a supplier to a system or service user. In turn the supplier may agree to pay a commission e.g. a percentage of the value of the sale or a fixed fee per sale to the provider. Credit card pricing is described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 191 359 filed Mar. 22 2000 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

Bad debt may accrue when a supplier fails to pay the provider a commission for a sale facilitated by the provider. When a user uses a credit card to pay for supplies or services ordered from a supplier he may do so on line by providing credit card information to fulfill any requirements for billing information presented by the provider. The system may receive the credit card information which may include an explicit or implicit instruction to the supplier the provider or both to seek payment from the user s financial institution in compensation for the supplies or services provided.

The provider may receive user credit card information including credit card account number the name of the credit card account holder and the credit card expiration date using any suitable electronic data collection means. The provider may then submit a credit card claim or payment instruction to the user s financial institution and receive funds corresponding to the claim but reduced by a service charge imposed by the financial institution.

The service charge may be a discounted service charge based on a high volume of credit card claims presented by the service provider. The discounted service charge may not be available to an individual supplier if the individual supplier does not generate a sufficient number of credit card transactions.

The provider may then pay the supplier the original claim amount reduced by the service charge and any commission or additional service charge upon which the provider and the supplier have agreed. The provider may deduct outstanding receivables due from the supplier in connection with other orders which may have been untrappable or voluntarily untrapped . Accordingly the provider may be virtually guaranteed that a commission on the credit card order will be received.

The provider and the supplier may further agree that the provider may wait a predetermined period of time before the provider pays the supplier. The floating funds received by the provider but not yet paid the supplier may be used by the provider to generate additional funds. The provider may keep some or all of the additional funds or may pass all or a portion of the funds to the supplier.

For example if a supplier submits a credit card claim c directly to a financial institution the supplier may receive a direct payment P given by 1 where m is a non discounted service charge rate. For example m may be 2 . If the provider submits claim c to the financial institution the provider may receive a payment P given by 2 where mmay be less than m Pmay thus be greater than P.

The provider may then make a delayed payment P to the supplier given by 3 where q is a service charge rate imposed on the supplier by the provider in exchange for processing the credit card payment and n is a commission rate. For example qmay be 1.5 and n may be 5 .

The net gain excluding any tax effects to the provider G in connection with such a transaction may thus be 4 The next gain excluding any tax effects to the supplier G after a commission is paid at rate n to the provider may thus be 1 5 when the supplier receives a delayed payment for claim c from the provider and 1 6 when the supplier submits claim c directly to the user s financial institution.

According to the principles of some of these embodiments the supplier may benefit from having the provider process the credit card claim to the extent that qis less than m equations 5 and 6 . Additional benefit may be conferred by the provider to the supplier by setting qless than m equation 4 . The cost of the additional benefit may be offset by investing the payment to the provider P equation 2 for a fixed period of time before making payment Pto the supplier.

When a supplier makes a combination of cash and credit card transactions through the on line service the provider may have a risk of non payment of commissions for cash sales. Using the method described above for credit card claim processing the risk associated with cash sales can be mitigated. Cash sales for the purposes of the credit card pricing feature of the invention may include all sales using payment methods other than credit card. If the provider processes all credit card claims only a certain portion of total sales including cash and credit card sales must be made by credit card to mitigate all risk associated with cash sales.

For example at the end of a given billing cycle in which cash and credit card transactions are made and in which all credit card transactions are processed by the provider the supplier may owe the provider a debt D given by 7 where X is total cash sales. In return the provider may owe the supplier a debt D given by 8 where K is total credit card sales. Accordingly the risks of unpaid debt are offset when 9 Using equations 7 9 the risks are offset when

Risk may be mitigated when the provider processes or traps only a fraction of the credit card orders. Using the principles described above the fraction of all credit card sales that the provider must trap F to mitigate against the risk of bad debt is given by

The payment of third amount to supplier may be sufficiently delayed with respect to receipt of first amount from financial institution that third amount may be used to generate investment income. Investment income may be generated for example via investment account of service provider .

Other steps illustrated in may involve additional processing such as searching grouping calculating and communicating with other systems or other types of processing. In on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by access device Internet and application server or database server depending on for example the processing and storage capabilities of access device the chosen implementation for the markup language documents used the processing requirements of such operations or other factors. In non on line arrangements as shown in such processing may be performed by personal computer remote access device application server database server or distributed among peer applications depending on the chosen system implementation and the processing requirements of such operations.

For clarity the following discussion will describe the steps shown in as being performed by the system which is intended to include any suitable e commerce system such as for example any non on line or on line arrangement suitable for performing the steps.

The system may receive an order from a user in step . The system may determine what method of payment the user has chosen e.g. cash credit card debit card house account 30 day net or any other method of payment . Some methods of payment involve using credit extended by a third party e.g. credit card or debit card . These methods are referred to herein as Third Party Credit. Other methods of payment involve only the user and the supplier e.g. cash house account 30 day net . These methods are referred to herein as Non Third Party Credit .

In step orders to be paid for using Non Third Party Credit are forwarded directly to the supplier for collection from the user step . Orders that involve Third Party Credit are analyzed in step . If passing the Third Party Credit claim to the supplier can be done without allowing the fraction of trapped credit card sales to decline below F as defined in equation 13 the Third Party Credit claim may be passed to the supplier at step . Otherwise the Third Party Credit claim may be trapped in step .

In step the system may submit the trapped Third Party Credit claim to the user s financial institution a Third Party Creditor . The system may receive a first amount equal to the claim reduced by any service charges from the financial institution or Third Party Creditor in step . In step the system may invest the first amount to generate additional funds which may be used to offset any financing service charges by the Third Party Creditor . In step the system may remit a third amount equal to the claim reduced by any service charges and or commissions to the supplier.

At step the system may receive an indication of the preferred user location. This location may be selected from a pre determined list generated by the user selected from a restricted selection generated randomly or based on one or more suitable criterion by the system or generated by the user or system in any other manner. Following receipt of the location indication step may proceed.

At step the user may be provided with a list of suppliers. The list of suppliers may be generated based on some or no relation to the location indicated in step . The list of suppliers may be provided to the user by the system by some other system based on electronic data transfer or in any suitable manner. Following provision of the supplier list the system may receive indication A from a user directing that step may proceed. In step step or step the system may receive indication B from a user indicating that the user wishes to follow path back to step and possibly indicate a different location. In step step or step the system may receive indication C from a user indicating that the user wishes to follow path back to step and possibly receive a different list of suppliers.

At step the system may receive an indication of the supplier or suppliers preferred by the user. The user may indicate suppliers from the list of suppliers suppliers not on the list of suppliers suppliers stored elsewhere electronically or any other supplier. The system may if desired reject one or more of the preferred suppliers as indicated by the user. Following user selection of preferred suppliers step may proceed.

At step the system may provide the user with information about suppliers. The information may or may not be associated with the preferred suppliers selected by the user. The information about the suppliers may be presented to the user in any suitable format. After presentation of this information the system may receive user indication A directing that step may proceed. In step or step the system may receive indication D from a user indicating that the user wishes to follow path back to step and possibly indicate a different selected supplier.

At step the system may provide the user catalog information. The catalog information may or may not be associated with the preferred suppliers selected by the user. The catalog information may be presented to the user in any suitable format. The catalog information may be presented in multiple levels each having more depth of information than the last. Following provision of the catalog information the system may receive user indication A directing that step may proceed. In step the system may receive indication E from a user indicating that the user wishes to follow path back to step and possibly receive information about a different selected supplier. In step the system may receive indication F from a user indicating that the user wishes to follow path back to step and possibly receive different catalog information.

At step the system may receive an indication of one or more desired products from the user. The desired products may be selected from the catalog entered dynamically by the user or selected from any other suitable source.

At step a one or more lists each composed of one or more suppliers are created within the system. Following step step may or may not be taken. Step may involve the creation of one or more catalogs associated with one or more of the suppliers. It is possible that one or more catalogs may be associated with one or more suppliers. For example a catalog in the form of a menu may be associated with a supplier that is a restaurant enabling the system to show users information about a restaurant s menu.

Step may be performed simultaneously with prior to or after performance of step . Step may involve the creation of one or more lists of one or more companies schools groups or any other type of suitable organization hereinafter in the description of this drawing companies will be used that may have some level of access to the system. Following step step may or may not be taken. Step may involve the creation of certain system permissions specific to one or more companies in one or more of the lists created in step assignment of certain system permissions to one or more companies deletion of certain system permissions relating to one or more companies or any other suitable changing of permissions for companies.

Following step steps and may or may not be taken. Steps and may be taken simultaneously in any combination or in any order with the possibility of two steps being taken simultaneously prior to or subsequent to the third step being taken. It is possible that one or more of steps and will not be taken.

At step a list of one or more departments may be created for one or more of the companies in one or more of the lists created in step . Following step step may or may not be taken. Step may involve the creation of certain system permissions specific to one or more departments in one or more of the lists created in step assignment of certain system permissions to one or more departments deletion of certain system permissions relating to one or more departments or any other suitable changing of permissions for departments. For example a company may have departments that have different procuring processes thereby necessitating different system permissions.

At step a list of one or more locations may be created for one or more of the companies in one or more of the lists created in step . For example many companies have locations in multiple cities or even multiple locations within one city. In this example if multiple locations are stored in the system the system may be better prepared to handle orders from users that may be associated with the same company but who require delivery at different locations.

At step a list of one or more users may be created for one or more of the companies in one or more of the lists created in step . Following step step may or may not be taken. Step may involve the creation of certain system permissions specific to one or more users in one or more of the lists created in step assignment of certain system permissions to one or more users deletion of certain system permissions relating to one or more users or any other suitable changing of permissions for users. For example it may be desirable to have many users who have permission to order food while having a smaller number of users who have the ability to view accounting details edit reporting functions handle customer service or any other system function that may be performed based on user indications.

Following steps and step may be taken. In step one or more suppliers or lists of suppliers may be associated with one or more companies or lists of companies. This association may allow one or more users within companies to order from the associated suppliers. For example a company may have a policy that requires ordering from a select supplier or group of suppliers. In this example being able to associate suppliers with companies would help to reduce problems with orders from improper suppliers.

Following steps and step may be taken. In step one or more suppliers or lists of suppliers that has been associated with one or more companies or lists of companies may be associated with one or more locations. This association may allow one or more users located at the associated locations to order from the associated suppliers. For example this might be desired if certain suppliers of a company are ordered from by users at some company locations but not by users at other company locations.

Following steps and step may be taken. In step one or more users or lists of users may be associated with one or more locations or lists of locations. This association may allow one or more users to order from the suppliers associated with the locations created in step . This might be useful for example if a company has multiple suppliers associated with it but certain users in the company are at locations where only a subset of the suppliers associated with the company may be ordered from.

Following steps and step may be taken. In step one or more locations or lists of locations may be associated with one or more departments or lists of departments. This association may allow one or more users that have been associated with the departments created in step to order from the suppliers associated with the locations created in step . This might be useful for instance when a company has one or more departments that have multiple locations. In this example if users were associated with one department the users may be able to order from different subsets of suppliers depending on the specific user s location and the suppliers associated with that location.

Following steps and step may be taken. In step one or more users may be associated with one or more departments or lists of departments. This association may allow one or more users to order from the suppliers associated with the locations of the departments created in step .

Header may include for example a logo of a service provider e.g. Service Provider Logo a name of a company web site or web site sponsor e.g. Company Name a logo e.g. Company Logo and links . The logo may include any suitable passive or interactive text graphics audio video animation or other suitable content. Links may be selected by users in connection with functions indicated by the labels of links . For example links may be selected by users for the purpose of accessing information about system viewing favorite past or present orders reviewing order history reviewing information about service provider credits contacting the service provider gaining access to help information or accessing any other system feature or information.

Side bar may include one or more tabs . The system may receive user indications through tabs about steps involved in placing orders. For example the system may receive a user indication leading to the display of specific information in display area through tabs . Tabs may show specific information about user locations selected businesses or individuals order totals confirmation codes or any relevant information.

Display area may include user location information . Location information may for example be displayed in the form of a table list radio buttons data entry field or any other suitable user interface feature. Location information may include zero one or a plurality of locations. Location information may be specific to a user general for all users selected based on user supplied criteria or compiled using any suitable method. A user may select a desired location from the displayed location information . Side bar may also include one or more interactive features . Interactive features may include buttons check boxes radio buttons data entry fields drop down lists menus or any suitable feature. The system may receive user indications about the flow of the order process through interactive features . For instance interactive features may allow a user to progress forward or backward in an order process cancel an order save order information restart an order continue or hold an order process or make any other suitable indications.

Content area may include information about a service provider vendors available services menu items one or more links to information one or more images or any other suitable content.

FIG. O shows illustrative display . As part of display the system may provide a list of suppliers relating in some way to the user s chosen location to be chosen from. In this example illustrative display shows a list of restaurants geographically related to the customer s chosen location titled jd office . User s choice of Sushi Connection caused the system to display information about that restaurant in content area . Illustrative display as well as other displays described herein may include header side bar and content area .

Display area may display information about suppliers that may or may not be accessible using the system. In illustrative display the suppliers shown are restaurants. Display area may list one or more suppliers in list . Display area may include search sort feature . Feature may include one or more input features with which users may indicate criteria for narrowing or expanding list of suppliers. Users may use input devices to search sort or both by for example cuisine type product type service type name price food quality product quality speed of service business type or any suitable search or sort criteria relevant to a type of supplier. The searching and sorting criteria may be appropriately modified for suppliers other than restaurants. For example a clothing supplier might be searched or sorted by type of clothing gender season specific clothing etc.

Display area may include one or more selection features . The system may receive input from a user through selection features . For example this input may include selection of a particular business or person about which information should be displayed selection of multiple businesses or persons that might be compared or about which a list might be prepared for other uses prompts indicating that the user wishes to view another list of one or more businesses or users or input relating to any suitable purpose.

Features of the illustrative display may have the capability to display additional information relating to that feature or another feature in response to user input. Additional information May be placed in display box or may be displayed in any manner suitable for the information desired. For example display box shows information relating to one of the restaurants related to a single selection feature . A user may indicate that display box is desired. In another suitable approach display box may be generated based on pre determined and or random system events such as business openings or closings special deals or promotions or any suitable regular or random event.

Content area may contain for example supplier information and a interactive feature . Supplier information may include the name address and contact information for one or more suppliers hours of operation types of payment accepted minimum order amounts information about delivery ordering or eating options customer ratings relating to food service or product quality speed of delivery service or other ratings a description of the cuisine type actual dishes eating environment delivery distances or any relevant information about the suppliers. The system through interactive feature may accept user indications to change the information displayed. In this example the system through interactive feature may accept user indications that the user wishes to view the menu for the selected supplier.

In illustrative display side bar may include order list and other information related to ordering supplier goods or services. Order list may include one or more order items . For each order item order list may include one or more quantity modifiers through which the system may accept user input relating to the desired quantity of order item one or more item cancellation modifiers through which the system may receive user indications that removing a specific item or group of items from order list is desirable one or more expansion features through which the system may receive user input indicating that the user wishes to view more specific information information indicating cost and desired quantity of item and any other relevant information. Side bar may also include one or more interactive features .

Content area may include information about products or services provided by one or more suppliers. Content area may also include one or more catalog features one or more interactive features one or more search data fields one or more search execution features one or more catalog section features one or more lists .

The system may receive user input relating to products or services about which a user desires more information through catalog features . Catalog features may be generated using user input received in search data field . In catalog feature allows a user to view information from a restaurant menu. Catalog features for restaurants may allow users to view breakfast lunch dinner carry out delivery dine in or any other type of menu or service provided by restaurants.

In this example the system may accept user indications that the user wishes to view general information about the selected supplier through interactive feature .

Search data fields may receive user input relating to specific products or services of selected supplier. This input may be used to limit the data displayed in part or all of illustrative display . The user information in search data field may be used when search execution feature receives a user indication that specific data should be displayed.

The system may receive user indications that a specific section of the supplier catalog should be displayed through catalog section features . Catalog section features may be generic or specific to a catalog feature . In the example shown catalog section features allow users to choose parts of a restaurant menu e.g. appetizer noodle soup beverages sushi sashimi sushi platter mixed platter roll a la carte sushi chef s recommendations and party platters . Catalog section features may allow the catalog of supplier goods and services to be divided in any manner.

List may display specific goods or services that are related to the specific catalog features and or catalog section features indicated by the user. List may display a default selection of goods or services or a selection based on user information entered into search data field . As shown list displays a portion of a restaurant menu. List may include one or more list features . List features may display information relating to a specific good service or combination of goods and or services. List features may include one or more of option features special information features and or order features . The system may receive user indications through option features when a specific good or service can be prepared or performed in more than one manner. As shown option features allow a user to select either white rice or brown rice as part of a shrimp tempura platter. Option features may be any suitable feature for receiving user indications including check boxes radio buttons buttons drop down lists or menus. The system may receive user input about a good or service being ordered through special information features . A user may indicate through a special information feature that a non standard good or service is desired. For instance a user might request that soy sauce or duck sauce be mixed with a menu item. The system may receive any relevant user indications through special information features . The system may receive user indications that the goods and or services represented by a specific list feature should be added to the user order and indicated in order list through order features .

In illustrative display side bar may include order and user information. This information may be provided for user reference prior to completing an order. Information may be displayed by one or more personal information features one or more order option features and or any other suitable information display feature. The system may receive user input regarding one or more persons to whom an order is to be related through personal information feature . The system May receive user input regarding one or more addresses to which an order should be sent through personal information feature .

Content area may display information about user orders. These orders may be current future or past orders. Order information may include any information needed and or relevant for order fulfillment. Content area may include print feature . Print feature may allow users to print save or otherwise memorialize one or more copies of one or more orders.

Display area may display any set or subset of data relevant to user accounts purchases orders and or any other user activity. Data may be displayed using any suitable display mechanism including but not limited to tables lists graphical displays and the like.

Display area may contain one or more input features . The system may receive user indications relating to any relevant information including account codes client codes prices percentages notes or any other accounting information through input features . Display area may include one or more interactive features for receiving indications of user intent.

Content area may display any set or subset of data relevant to user accounts purchases orders and or any other user activity. Data may be displayed using any suitable display mechanism including but not limited to tables lists graphical displays and the like.

Side bar may contain one or more sorting regions . Sorting regions may contain one or more sort features . The system may receive user indications regarding types of information to be displayed in content area through sort features . For example the system may receive indications of dates user client project employee order cost tip and or payment type information and or any information upon which relevant data may be sorted through sort features . The system may receive user input indicating that data should be sorted with a multiple level sort mechanism using more than one field to sort upon through sort features .

Sorting regions may also contain one or more limiting features . The system may receive user input indicating that some or all information should be excluded from the information displayed in content area through limiting features . Limiting features may for example allow users to indicate dates user client project employee order cost tip and or payment type information and or any information which may be used to exclude relevant data from display in content area .

Header may include logo . Header may display any relevant text or information such as company names and service provider logos.

Display area may include instructional and or informational text. Display area may also include sign in area . Sign in area may include one or more user data features one or more user control features and any relevant descriptive text or information. The system may receive user indications of information needed for signing in to the system through user data features . The system may receive user indications relating to signing in through user control features . User input may include indications to sign in request information regarding forgotten passwords request information about changing passwords and or any other suitable indications.

In this example content area shows a menu which may be available to an administrative user after logging into the system . Content area may contain one or more interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications about illustrative displays that an administrative user wishes to view actions an administrative user wishes the system to take or any other appropriate indication through interactive features .

Content area may include one or more input features . The system may receive administrative user indications of desired criteria to be used in searching for particular records in the system through input features . The system may receive indications of IDs names addresses cities zip codes phone numbers sort methods or any other relevant indications through input features . In example the administrative user typed Caf into the input feature titled Name and selected UID in the input feature titled Sort By .

Content area may include search feature . The system may receive administrative user indications that performing a search is desired through search feature . Upon receipt of the appropriate indication by the system through search feature the system may perform a search for relevant restaurants. The system may use any of the indications in input features in performing the search. In this example the criterion Caf was used in the search and the results all have the characters caf within the returned data.

Content area may include list . List may include list features . List features may include item features . List features may include any relevant data relating to the restaurants stored in the system including ID name address city state zip code phone number and any other relevant data. In this example list contains several list features each relating to a restaurant stored in the system that has the characters caf stored as part of its relevant data.

Content area may include data modification features . The system may receive administrative user indications relating to adding to editing deleting from or any other suitable action regarding the stored restaurant information through data modification features . In this example data modification features allow an administrative user to ADD NEW RESTAURANT or IMPORT RESTAURANT FROM ACCESS . . . .

Illustrative display as well as any illustrative display described herein may contain header and content area . Content area may contain interactive features . The system may receive any appropriate administrative user indications relating to importing data into the system or any other appropriate indications through interactive features .

Content area may include option features . The system may receive administrative user input relating to any suitable information about suppliers through option features . In this example the system may receive information about restaurant location and contact information hours of operation cuisine types types of dining service offered payment methods ratings menus and other relevant information through option features . In this example administrative user has entered Bucharian Caf 44 Post. St. Southfield Ohio 44445 Maple 8885557777 and 8885557778 in option features in the contact information area check marks in various boxes and opening and closing times in the hours of operation area a check mark in option feature titled American and Cuisine s Organic Vegetarian in an option feature titled NOTES both in the cuisine type section and check marks in option features titled Delivers and Offers TakeOut in the type of dining service area.

Content area may include one or more execution features . The system may receive administrative user indications through execution features . Administrative user indications to the system through execution features may prompt the system to store supplier data change supplier data delete supplier data or perform any other suitable function.

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a list of suppliers accessible through the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list through interactive feature . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include input features and interactive features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example input feature has received the administrative user input New . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example interactive feature may receive an administrative user indication that the administrative user wishes to proceed to the next step in the process of adding a new list item to list .

Display area may include one or more interactive features one or more lists and one or more sublists . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications including indications to add one or more list items to sublist as a sublist item select all list items select none of list items remove one or more sublist items from sublist select all sublist items select none of sublist items continue to the next step in the process of adding a list item or any other suitable indications through interactive features .

List may contain one or more list items . Sublist may contain one or more sublist items . List items and sublist items may display any relevant information relating to specific suppliers including ID numbers names etc. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through list items and sublist items . The system may receive administrative user indications of selection or deselection prior to receipt of administrative user indications by interactive features through list items and sublist items .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a corporate site accessible through the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way an associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list through interactive feature . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include interactive features and input features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Back to sites list without editing through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through the interactive feature titled Back to sites list without editing . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that gDebugSubmit gAnonUserLogin gUserEditName gUserEditLocation gUserEditUser gUserEditTime gUserEditService and gUserEditPayment are desirable parts of the relevant data to be stored in relation to a site named atg through input features .

Content area may contain attention items interactive features and counter display features . Attention item may be used to display any relevant information regarding one or more user orders that may or may not be problematic in any relevant form. In this example attention item displays information regarding order ID date time restaurant company customer customer phone number whether the order needs attention and the release status. The system may receive any relevant administrative user indications including indications regarding text to search for places to be searched date ranges to be searched whether a date range should be searched preferred execution of a search of orders and recall of the previous search through interactive features . One or more counter display features may be used to display counts or quantities of relevant information. In this example counter display features show the number of orders needing attention age in minutes of the oldest order needing attention the number of orders not needing attention and the number of orders being worked on.

Content area may include list and interactive features . List may include list items . In this example list items show data relevant to orders including dates restaurants customers and whether the order is available for customer service. List items may include any information relevant to any order. The system may receive any relevant administrative user indications through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications showing a preference to view illustrative display through interactive feature as shown in .

Content area may include input features and interactive features . The system may receive any input by an administrative user regarding the order for which information is being displayed in content area through input features . In this example the system may receive input of Comment by CSR and This order is okay through input features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications including indications to enter data provide illustrative display provide illustrative display or any other suitable indications through interactive features .

In this example content area shows a menu which may be available to an administrative user after logging into the system . Content area may contain one or more interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications about illustrative displays that an administrative user wishes to view actions an administrative user wishes the system to take or any other appropriate indication through interactive features .

Content area may contain list and interactive features . List may contain one or more list items . In this example list items display data regarding order numbers order deadlines event times order ages customers restaurants event types customer service representatives and notes. List items may display any data relevant to an order customer customer service representative supplier or any other relevant data. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of month day year GO and PRINT REPORT through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications and allow the administrative user to view a list corresponding to any relevant date through interactive features titled month day year and GO . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that a printed version of list be prepared through interactive feature titled PRINT REPORT .

Content area may contain list and interactive features . List may contain one or more list items . In this example list items display data regarding locations restaurants customers totals times dates and comments issues. List items may display any data relevant to an order user administrative user supplier or any other relevant data. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of month day year GO and PRINT and Include cancelled orders through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications and allow the administrative user to view a complete or partial list corresponding to any range of relevant dates through interactive features titled FROM TO Include canceled orders and GO . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that a printed version of list be prepared through interactive feature titled PRINT .

Content area may contain list and interactive features . List may contain one or more list items . In this example list items display data regarding restaurant UIDs restaurant names street addresses phone numbers and facsimile numbers. List items may display any data relevant to a supplier or any other relevant data. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of site Include Restaurant UID Include Other Info Get Restaurant List Download Report and PRINT through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications and allow the administrative user to view a list corresponding to any relevant site through interactive features titled Select a Site Include Restaurant UID Include Other Info and Get Restaurant List . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that a printed version of list be prepared through interactive feature titled PRINT . The system may receive administrative user indications that an electronic version of the information in list should be stored through interactive feature titled Download Report .

Content area may contain list one or more selection features and interactive features . List may contain one or more list items . In this example list items display data regarding company names average order size and average daily order totals. List items may display any data relevant to a supplier or any other relevant data. The system may receive administrative user indications that viewing a specific report including reports titled Average Orders Customers by Company Order Events by date Orders By Customer Orders By Restaurant Details Orders By Restaurant Summary Restaurant Search through selection feature or any other relevant reports. Upon receipt of such indications list may be provided anew with the information desired by administrative user. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Start Date End Date Include Cancelled Orders Notes RUN REPORT and PRINT through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications and allow the administrative user to view a list corresponding to any relevant report indicated to selection feature through the interactive features titled Start Date End Date Include Cancelled Orders Notes and RUN REPORT . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that a printed version of list be prepared through interactive feature titled PRINT . In this example administrative user has indicated to selection feature that Average Orders is desired and indicated to interactive features that a start date of Jun. 19 2000 and an end date of Dec. 1 2000 is desired thereby generating the shown list by making the proper indications to interactive feature titled RUN REPORT .

Content area may contain list and interactive features . List may contain one or more list items . In this example list items display the names of relevant reports. List items may display any data relevant to a report or any other relevant data. Each list item may contain one or more item features . The system may receive administrative user indications that a specific action should be taken with respect to the report represented by the associated list item through item features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user desires to edit or delete the report through the associated item feature . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Go to Report Manager report name and add new report through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications and allow the administrative user add a new report as a list item through interactive features titled add new report and the interactive feature that is not titled. The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Go to Report Manager .

Content area may contain table and interactive features . Table may contain interactive feature and display area . The system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to edit part or all of the displayed information or any other relevant information associated with the displayed information through interactive feature . Display area may display SQL queries or any other relevant data. Interactive features may receive any suitable administrative user indications. In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Go to Report Manager and Back to reports list without editing through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through the interactive feature titled Back to reports list without editing . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Go to Report Manager .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a company that has access to the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list or input the name of a list item through interactive feature . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include interactive features and input features . Interactive features may receive any suitable administrative user indications. In this example interactive features may receive administrative user indications of Go to departments list and Back to companies list without editing . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to companies list without editing . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Go to departments list . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example through input features the system has received administrative user indications that Acme WWW 25 1001 6th Ave. 4th Floor Plaintown Ohio USA and 44444 are parts of the relevant data to be stored in relation to a company named Acme .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a department of a company or organization that has access to the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example interactive feature may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list input the name of a list item or view the list of companies. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include interactive features and input features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Back to companies list Go to customers list and Back to department list without editing through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to department list without editing . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to companies list . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Go to customers list . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example input features have received administrative user indications that Acme 25 1001 6th Ave. 4th Floor Plaintown Ohio USA and 44444 are parts of the relevant data to be stored in relation to a the ACME Legal department of a company named Acme .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a user that has access to the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list input relevant data regarding a list item view the list of departments or view the list of companies through interactive features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent a location of a company or organization that has access to the system . List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional item to list input relevant data regarding a list item view the list of users view the list of departments or view the list of companies through interactive features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include interactive features and input features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Back to companies list Back to customers list and Back to departments list and Back to locations list without editing through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to locations list without editing . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to companies list . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to departments list . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to customers list . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example input features have received administrative user indications that Acme Acme 1001 6th Ave. Suite 421 4th Fl. Plaintown and Ohio are parts of the relevant data to be stored in relation to a the Acme location of the ACME Legal department of a company named Acme .

Content area may include list . List may include list items . Each list item may represent an administrative users. List items may include list features . The system may receive indications that an administrative user prefers to edit delete add or modify in any suitable way the associated list item through list features . Content area may include one or more interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications that the administrative user wishes to add an additional list item to list or input relevant data regarding a list item through interactive features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features .

Content area may include interactive features and input features . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through interactive features . In this example the system may receive administrative user indications of Back to operators list Go to customers list and edit operator through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Back to operators list . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the administrative user wishes to view illustrative display through interactive feature titled Go to customers list . The system may receive administrative user indications directing that the data displayed in input features be stored for future use through interactive feature titled edit operator . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through input features . In this example the system through input features has received administrative user indications that jackf a password indicated as Jack Fine and jfine mail.com are parts of the relevant data to be stored in relation to a the operator titled jackf .

Display area may include one or more interactive features one or more lists and one or more sublists . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications including indications to add one or more list items to sublist as a sublist item select all list items select none of list items remove one or more sublist items from sublist select all sublist items select none of sublist items perform customized extra editing or any other suitable indications through interactive features .

List may contain one or more list items . Sublist may contain one or more sublist items . List items and sublist items may display any relevant information relating to specific administrative user permissions. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through list items and sublist items . The system may receive administrative user indications of selection or deselection prior to receipt of administrative user indications by interactive features through list items and sublist items .

Display area may include one or more interactive features one or more lists and one or more sublists . The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications including indications to add one or more list items to sublist as a sublist item select all list items select none of list items remove one or more sublist items from sublist select all sublist items select none of sublist items perform customized extra editing or any other suitable indications through interactive features .

List may contain one or more list items . Sublist may contain one or More sublist items . List items and sublist items may display any relevant information relating to specific administrative user groups. The system may receive any suitable administrative user indications through list items and sublist items . The system may receive administrative user indications of selection or deselection prior to receipt of administrative user indications by interactive features through list items and sublist items .

The system may receive administrative user indications directing the type of expense report that the administrative user wishes to view through control box . Control box may include date area summary area detail area and any other relevant features.

Date area may include one or more interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications of a desirable date or date range to be used when compiling a list through interactive features .

Summary area may include one or more interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications regarding desired methods of searching sorting or compiling data or any other relevant indications through interactive features . The system may receive administrative indications that displaying a summary style expense report is desirable through interactive features .

Detail area may include one or more interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications regarding desired methods of searching sorting or compiling data or any other relevant indications through interactive features . The system may receive administrative user indications that displaying a detail style expense report is desirable through interactive features .

Thus an e commerce system for ordering supplies or services from suppliers is provided. In some embodiments standards for placing orders and registering catalog information in a database may be provided. Orders may be received from internal or external ordering sites. Supplier information may be made available to the internal or external sites. Systems and methods for placing orders preprocessing supplier information using geographic information conducting data searches and analyses locally on user access devices continuously updating displays of browser frames tracking orders using accounting codes placing graphical custom orders submitting graphical orders to suppliers placing group orders reducing risks associated with delinquent accounts receivable or combinations thereof may be provided. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

