---

title: Fc variants with altered binding to FcRn
abstract: The present application relates to a variant Fc region comprising at least one modification relative to a wild-type human Fc region, where the modification selected from the group consisting of 434S, 252Y/428L, 252Y/434S, and 428L/434S, and the numbering is according to the EU index.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08852586&OS=08852586&RS=08852586
owner: Xencor, Inc.
number: 08852586
owner_city: Monrovia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100201
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 932 151 filed Oct. 31 2007 and a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 341 769 filed Dec. 22 2008 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Ser. No. 61 016 793 filed Dec. 26 2007 U.S. Ser. No. 61 031 353 filed Feb. 25 2008 U.S. Ser. No. 61 046 353 filed Apr. 18 2008 U.S. Ser. No. 61 050 172 filed May 2 2008 U.S. Ser. No. 61 079 779 filed Jul. 10 2008 and U.S. Ser. No. 61 099 178 filed Sep. 22 2008 and is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 932 151 filed Oct. 31 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 436 266 filed May 17 2006 which claimed benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Ser. No. 60 951 536 filed Jul. 24 2007 and is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 274 065 filed on Nov. 14 2005 which claimed benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Ser. No. 60 627 763 filed Nov. 12 2004 U.S. Ser. No. 60 642 886 filed Jan. 11 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 649 508 filed Feb. 2 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 662 468 filed Mar. 15 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 669 311 filed Apr. 6 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 681 607 filed May 16 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 690 200 filed Jun. 13 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 696 609 filed Jul. 5 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 60 703 018 filed Jul. 27 2005 and U.S. Ser. No. 60 726 453 filed Oct. 12 2005 all entirely incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to optimized IgG immunoglobulin variants engineering methods for their generation and their application particularly for therapeutic purposes.

Antibodies are immunological proteins that each binds a specific antigen. In most mammals including humans and mice antibodies are constructed from paired heavy and light polypeptide chains. Each chain is made up of individual immunoglobulin Ig domains and thus the generic term immunoglobulin is used for such proteins. Each chain is made up of two distinct regions referred to as the variable and constant regions. The light and heavy chain variable regions show significant sequence diversity between antibodies and are responsible for binding the target antigen. The constant regions show less sequence diversity and are responsible for binding a number of natural proteins to elicit important biochemical events. In humans there are five different classes of antibodies including IgA which includes subclasses IgA1 and IgA2 IgD IgE IgG which includes subclasses IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4 and IgM. The distinguishing feature between these antibody classes is their constant regions although subtler differences may exist in the V region. IgG antibodies are tetrameric proteins composed of two heavy chains and two light chains. The IgG heavy chain is composed of four immunoglobulin domains linked from N to C terminus in the order VH CH1 CH2 CH3 referring to the heavy chain variable domain heavy chain constant domain 1 heavy chain constant domain 2 and heavy chain constant domain 3 respectively also referred to as VH C 1 C 2 C 3 referring to the heavy chain variable domain constant gamma 1 domain constant gamma 2 domain and constant gamma 3 domain respectively . The IgG light chain is composed of two immunoglobulin domains linked from N to C terminus in the order VL CL referring to the light chain variable domain and the light chain constant domain respectively.

In IgG a site on Fc between the C 2 and C 3 domains mediates interaction with the neonatal receptor FcRn. Binding to FcRn recycles endocytosed antibody from the endosome back to the bloodstream Raghavan et al. 1996 Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 12 181 220 Ghetie et al. 2000 Annu Rev Immunol 18 739 766 both entirely incorporated by reference . This process coupled with preclusion of kidney filtration due to the large size of the full length molecule results in favorable antibody serum half lives ranging from one to three weeks. Binding of Fc to FcRn also plays a key role in antibody transport. The binding site on Fc for FcRn is also the site at which the bacterial proteins A and G bind. The tight binding by these proteins is typically exploited as a means to purify antibodies by employing protein A or protein G affinity chromatography during protein purification. Thus the fidelity of this region on Fc is important for both the clinical properties of antibodies and their purification. Available structures of the rat Fc FcRn complex Burmeister et al. 1994 Nature 372 379 383 Martin et al. 2001 Mol Cell 7 867 877 both entirely incorporated by reference and of the complexes of Fc with proteins A and G Deisenhofer 1981 Biochemistry 20 2361 2370 Sauer Eriksson et al. 1995 Structure 3 265 278 Tashiro et al. 1995 Curr Opin Struct Biol 5 471 481 all entirely incorporated by reference provide insight into the interaction of Fc with these proteins. The FcRn receptor is also responsible for the transfer of IgG to the neonatal gut and to the lumen of the intestinal epithelia in adults Ghetie and Ward Annu. Rev. Immunol. 2000 18 739 766 Yoshida et al. Immunity 2004 20 6 769 783 both entirely incorporated by reference .

Studies of rat and human Fc domains have demonstrated the importance of some Fc residues to the binding of FcRn. The rat and human sequences have about 64 sequence identity in the Fc regions residues 237 443 in the numbering of EU index . See and for the rat human alignments of Fc FcRn heavy chain and FcRn light chain beta 2 microglobulin . A model of the human Fc FcRn complex has been built from the existing structure of the rat Fc FcRn complex Martin et al. 2001 Mol Cell 7 867 877 entirely incorporated by reference . The rat and human sequences share some residues that are critical for FcRn binding such as H310 and H435 Medesan et al. 1997 J. Immunol. 158 5 221 7 Shields et al. 2001 J. Biol. Chem. 276 9 6591 6604 both entirely incorporated by reference . In many positions however the human and rat proteins have different amino acids giving the residues in the human sequence different environments and possibly a different identities than in the rat sequence. This variability limits the ability to transfer characteristics from one homolog to the other homolog.

In the murine Fc random mutation and phage display selection at the sites T252 T254 and T256 lead to a triple mutant T252L T254S T256F that has a 3.5 fold increase in FcRn affinity and a 1.5 fold increase in serum half life Ghetie et al. 1997 Nat. Biotech. 15 7 637 640 entirely incorporated by reference . Disruption of the Fc FcRn interaction by mutations at positions 253 310 and 435 also lead to decreased in vivo half life Medesan et al J. Immunol. 1997 158 5 2211 7 entirely incorporated by reference .

Mutational studies in human Fc have been done on some of the residues that are important for binding to FcRn and have demonstrated an increased serum half life. In human Fc 1 Hinton et al. mutated three residues individually to the other 19 common amino acids. Hinton et al. found that some point mutants a double mutant increased the FcRn binding affinity Hinton et al. 2004 J. Biol. Chem. 279 8 6213 6216 Hinton et al. Journal of Immunology 2006 176 346 356 both entirely incorporated by reference . Two mutations had increased half lives in monkeys. Shields et al. mutated residues almost exclusively to Ala and studied their binding to FcRn and the Fc R s Shields et al. 2001 J. Biol. Chem. 276 9 6591 6604 entirely incorporated by reference .

Dall Acqua et al. used phage display to select for Fc mutations that bound FcRn with increased affinity Dall Acqua et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 5171 5180 entirely incorporated by reference . The DNA sequences selected for were primarily double and triple mutants. The reference expressed the proteins encoded by many of their selected sequences and found some that bound to FcRn more tightly than the wild type Fc.

The administration of antibodies and Fc fusion proteins as therapeutics requires injections with a prescribed frequency relating to the clearance and half life characteristics of the protein. Longer in vivo half lives allow more seldom injections or lower dosing which is clearly advantageous. Although the past mutations in the Fc domain have lead to some proteins with increased FcRn binding affinity and in vivo half lives these mutations have not identified the optimal mutations and enhanced in vivo half life.

One feature of the Fc region is the conserved N linked glycosylation that occurs at N297. This carbohydrate or oligosaccharide as it is sometimes called plays a critical structural and functional role for the antibody and is one of the principle reasons that antibodies must be produced using mammalian expression systems. Uma a et al. 199917 176 180 Davies et al. 200174 288 294 Mimura et al. 2001276 45539 45547. Radaev et al. 2001276 16478 16483 Shields et al. 2001276 6591 6604 Shields et al. 2002277 26733 26740 Simmons et al. 2002263 133 147 Radaev et al. 2001276 16469 16477 and Krapp et al. 2003325 979 989 all entirely incorporated by reference .

Antibodies have been developed for therapeutic use. Representative publications related to such therapies include Chamow et al. 199614 52 60 Ashkenazi et al. 19979 195 200 Cragg et al. 199911 541 547 Glennie et al. 200021 403 410 McLaughlin et al. 199816 2825 2833 and Cobleigh et al. 199917 2639 2648 all entirely incorporated by reference. Currently for anticancer therapy any small improvement in mortality rate defines success. Certain IgG variants disclosed herein enhance the capacity of antibodies to limit further growth or destroy at least partially targeted cancer cells.

Anti tumor potency of antibodies is via enhancement of their ability to mediate cytotoxic effector functions such as ADCC ADCP and CDC. Examples include Clynes et al. 199895 652 656 Clynes et al. 20006 443 446 and Cartron et al. 200299 754 758 both entirely incorporated by reference.

Human IgG1 is the most commonly used antibody for therapeutic purposes and the majority of engineering studies have been constructed in this context. The different isotypes of the IgG class however including IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4 have unique physical biological and clinical properties. There is a need in the art to design improved IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4 variants. There is a further need to design such variants to improve binding to FcRn and or increase in vivo half life as compared to native IgG polypeptides. Additionally there is a need to combine variants with improved pharmacokinetic properties with variants comprising modifications to improve efficacy through altered FcgammaR binding. The present application meets these and other needs.

The present application is directed to Fc variants of a parent polypeptide including at least one modification in the Fc region of the polypeptide. In various embodiments the variant polypeptides exhibit altered binding to FcRn as compared to a parent polypeptide. In certain variations the modification can be selected from the group consisting of 428L 434M and 434S where the numbering is according to the EU Index in Kabat et al.

In another embodiment the Fc variant includes at least two modifications selected from the group consisting of 252Y 428L 428L 434H 428L 434F 428L 434Y 428L 434A 428L 434M and 428L 434S.

In another embodiment the Fc variant includes at least one modification selected from the group consisting of M428L N434S V308F M428L N434S.

In another embodiment the Fc variant includes at least one modification selected from the group consisting of 259I 434S 308F 434S 308F 428L 434S 259I 308F 434S 307Q 308F 434S 250I 308F 434S and 308F 319L 434S.

In another embodiment the Fc variant includes at least one modification selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment the invention includes a method of treating a patient in need of said treatment comprising administering an effective amount of an Fc variant described herein.

In another embodiment the invention includes a method of increasing the half life of an antibody or immunoadhesin by modifying an Fc according to the modifications described herein.

In another variant the invention includes Fc variant with enchanced FcRn binding with additional Fc variants that modulate effector function.

The present invention discloses the generation of novel variants of Fc domains including those found in antibodies Fc fusions and immuno adhesions which have an increased binding to the FcRn receptor. As noted herein binding to FcRn results in longer serum retention in vivo.

In order to increase the retention of the Fc proteins in vivo the increase in binding affinity must be at around pH 6 while maintaining lower affinity at around pH 7.4. Although still under examination Fc regions are believed to have longer half lives in vivo because binding to FcRn at pH 6 in an endosome sequesters the Fc Ghetie and Ward 1997 Immunol Today. 18 12 592 598 entirely incorporated by reference . The endosomal compartment then recycles the Fc to the cell surface. Once the compartment opens to the extracellular space the higher pH 7.4 induces the release of Fc back into the blood. In mice Dall Acqua et al. showed that Fc mutants with increased FcRn binding at pH 6 and pH 7.4 actually had reduced serum concentrations and the same half life as wild type Fc Dall Acqua et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 5171 5180 entirely incorporated by reference . The increased affinity of Fc for FcRn at pH 7.4 is thought to forbid the release of the Fc back into the blood. Therefore the Fc mutations that will increase Fc s half life in vivo will ideally increase FcRn binding at the lower pH while still allowing release of Fc at higher pH. The amino acid histidine changes its charge state in the pH range of 6.0 to 7.4. Therefore it is not surprising to find His residues at important positions in the Fc FcRn complex . 

An additional aspect of the invention is the increase in FcRn binding over wild type specifically at lower pH about pH 6.0 to facilitate Fc FcRn binding in the endosome. Also disclosed are Fc variants with altered FcRn binding and altered binding to another class of Fc receptors the Fc R s sometimes written FcgammaR s as differential binding to Fc Rs particularly increased binding to Fc RIIIb and decreased binding to Fc RIIb has been shown to result in increased efficacy.

In order that the application may be more completely understood several definitions are set forth below. Such definitions are meant to encompass grammatical equivalents.

By ADCC or antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell.

By ADCP or antibody dependent cell mediated phagocytosis as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause phagocytosis of the target cell.

By modification herein is meant an amino acid substitution insertion and or deletion in a polypeptide sequence or an alteration to a moiety chemically linked to a protein. For example a modification may be an altered carbohydrate or PEG structure attached to a protein. By amino acid modification herein is meant an amino acid substitution insertion and or deletion in a polypeptide sequence.

By amino acid substitution or substitution herein is meant the replacement of an amino acid at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence with another amino acid. For example the substitution E272Y refers to a variant polypeptide in this case an Fc variant in which the glutamic acid at position 272 is replaced with tyrosine.

By amino acid insertion or insertion as used herein is meant the addition of an amino acid sequence at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example 233E or 233E designates an insertion of glutamic acid after position 233 and before position 234. Additionally 233ADE or 233ADE designates an insertion of AlaAspGlu after position 233 and before position 234.

By amino acid deletion or deletion as used herein is meant the removal of an amino acid sequence at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example E233 or E233 designates a deletion of glutamic acid at position 233. Additionally EDA233 or EDA233 designates a deletion of the sequence GluAspAla that begins at position 233.

By variant protein or protein variant or variant as used herein is meant a protein that differs from that of a parent protein by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Protein variant may refer to the protein itself a composition comprising the protein or the amino sequence that encodes it. Preferably the protein variant has at least one amino acid modification compared to the parent protein e.g. from about one to about seventy amino acid modifications and preferably from about one to about five amino acid modifications compared to the parent. The protein variant sequence herein will preferably possess at least about 80 homology with a parent protein sequence and most preferably at least about 90 homology more preferably at least about 95 homology. Variant protein can refer to the variant protein itself compositions comprising the protein variant or the DNA sequence that encodes it. Accordingly by antibody variant or variant antibody as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent antibody by virtue of at least one amino acid modification IqG variant or variant IqG as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent IgG by virtue of at least one amino acid modification and immunoglobulin variant or variant immunoglobulin as used herein is meant an immunoglobulin sequence that differs from that of a parent immunoglobulin sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Fc variant or variant Fc as used herein is meant a protein comprising a modification in an Fc domain. The Fc variants of the present invention are defined according to the amino acid modifications that compose them. Thus for example N434S or 434S is an Fc variant with the substitution serine at position 434 relative to the parent Fc polypeptide wherein the numbering is according to the EU index. Likewise M428L N434S defines an Fc variant with the substitutions M428L and N434S. A relative to the parent Fc polypeptide. The identity of the WT amino acid may be unspecified in which case the aforementioned variant is referred to as 428L 434S. It is noted that the order in which substitutions are provided is arbitrary that is to say that for example 428L 434S is the same Fc variant as M428L N434S and so on. For all positions discussed in the present invention numbering is according to the EU index. The EU index or EU index as in Kabat or EU numbering scheme refers to the numbering of the EU antibody Edelman et al. 1969 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 63 78 85 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. The modification can be an addition deletion or substitution. Substitutions can include naturally occurring amino acids and non naturally occurring amino acids. Variants may comprise non natural amino acids. Examples include U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 207 WO 98 48032 WO 03 073238 US2004 0214988A1 WO 05 35727A2 WO 05 74524A2 J. W. Chin et al. 2002 Journal of the American Chemical Society 124 9026 9027 J. W. Chin P. G. Schultz 2002 ChemBioChem 11 1135 1137 J. W. Chin et al. 2002 PICAS United States of America 99 11020 11024 and L. Wang P. G. Schultz 2002 Chem. 1 10 all entirely incorporated by reference.

As used herein protein herein is meant at least two covalently attached amino acids which includes proteins polypeptides oligopeptides and peptides. The peptidyl group may comprise naturally occurring amino acids and peptide bonds or synthetic peptidomimetic structures i.e. analogs such as peptoids see Simon et al. PNAS USA 89 20 9367 1992 entirely incorporated by reference . The amino acids may either be naturally occurring or non naturally occurring as will be appreciated by those in the art. For example homo phenylalanine citrulline and noreleucine are considered amino acids for the purposes of the invention and both D and L R or S configured amino acids may be utilized. The variants of the present invention may comprise modifications that include the use of unnatural amino acids incorporated using for example the technologies developed by Schultz and colleagues including but not limited to methods described by Cropp Shultz 2004 Trends Genet. 20 12 625 30 Anderson et al. 2004 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 2 7566 71 Zhang et al. 2003 303 5656 371 3 and Chin et al. 2003 Science 301 5635 964 7 all entirely incorporated by reference. In addition polypeptides may include synthetic derivatization of one or more side chains or termini glycosylation PEGylation circular permutation cyclization linkers to other molecules fusion to proteins or protein domains and addition of peptide tags or labels.

By residue as used herein is meant a position in a protein and its associated amino acid identity. For example Asparagine 297 also referred to as Asn297 or N297 is a residue at position 297 in the human antibody IgG1.

By Fab or Fab region as used herein is meant the polypeptide that comprises the VH CH1 VL and CL immunoglobulin domains. Fab may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of a full length antibody antibody fragment or Fab fusion protein. By Fv or Fv fragment or Fv region as used herein is meant a polypeptide that comprises the VL and VH domains of a single antibody.

By IgG subclass modification as used herein is meant an amino acid modification that converts one amino acid of one IgG isotype to the corresponding amino acid in a different aligned IgG isotype. For example because IgG1 comprises a tyrosine and IgG2 a phenylalanine at EU position 296 a F296Y substitution in IgG2 is considered an IgG subclass modification.

By non naturally occurring modification as used herein is meant an amino acid modification that is not isotypic. For example because none of the IgGs comprise a serine at position 434 the substitution 434S in IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4 is considered a non naturally occurring modification.

By amino acid and amino acid identity as used herein is meant one of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids or any non natural analogues that may be present at a specific defined position.

By effector function as used herein is meant a biochemical event that results from the interaction of an antibody Fc region with an Fc receptor or ligand. Effector functions include but are not limited to ADCC ADCP and CDC.

By IgG Fc ligand as used herein is meant a molecule preferably a polypeptide from any organism that binds to the Fc region of an IgG antibody to form an Fc Fc ligand complex. Fc ligands include but are not limited to Fc Rs Fc Rs Fc Rs FcRn C1q C3 mannan binding lectin mannose receptor staphylococcal protein A streptococcal protein G and viral Fc R. Fc ligands also include Fc receptor homologs FcRH which are a family of Fc receptors that are homologous to the Fc Rs Davis et al. 2002190 123 136 entirely incorporated by reference . Fc ligands may include undiscovered molecules that bind Fc. Particular IgG Fc ligands are FcRn and Fc gamma receptors. By Fc ligand as used herein is meant a molecule preferably a polypeptide from any organism that binds to the Fc region of an antibody to form an Fc Fc ligand complex.

By Fc gamma receptor Fc R or FcgammaR as used herein is meant any member of the family of proteins that bind the IgG antibody Fc region and is encoded by an Fc R gene. In humans this family includes but is not limited to Fc RI CD64 including isoforms Fc RIa Fc RIb and Fc RIc Fc RII CD32 including isoforms Fc RIIa including allotypes H131 and R131 Fc RIIb including Fc RIIb 1 and Fc RIIb 2 and Fc RIIc and Fc RIII CD16 including isoforms Fc RIIIa including allotypes V158 and F158 and Fc RIIIb including allotypes Fc RIIIb NA1 and Fc RIIIb NA2 Jefferis et al. 200282 57 65 entirely incorporated by reference as well as any undiscovered human Fc Rs or Fc R isoforms or allotypes. An Fc R may be from any organism including but not limited to humans mice rats rabbits and monkeys. Mouse Fc Rs include but are not limited to Fc RI CD64 Fc RII CD32 Fc RIII CD16 and Fc RIII 2 CD16 2 as well as any undiscovered mouse Fc Rs or Fc R isoforms or allotypes.

By FcRn or neonatal Fc Receptor as used herein is meant a protein that binds the IgG antibody Fc region and is encoded at least in part by an FcRn gene. The FcRn may be from any organism including but not limited to humans mice rats rabbits and monkeys. As is known in the art the functional FcRn protein comprises two polypeptides often referred to as the heavy chain and light chain. The light chain is beta 2 microglobulin and the heavy chain is encoded by the FcRn gene. Unless other wise noted herein FcRn or an FcRn protein refers to the complex of FcRn heavy chain with beta 2 microglobulin. Sequences of particular interest of FcRn are shown in the Figures particularly the human species.

By parent polypeptide as used herein is meant an unmodified polypeptide that is subsequently modified to generate a variant. The parent polypeptide may be a naturally occurring polypeptide or a variant or engineered version of a naturally occurring polypeptide. Parent polypeptide may refer to the polypeptide itself compositions that comprise the parent polypeptide or the amino acid sequence that encodes it. Accordingly by parent immunoglobulin as used herein is meant an unmodified immunoglobulin polypeptide that is modified to generate a variant and by parent antibody as used herein is meant an unmodified antibody that is modified to generate a variant antibody. It should be noted that parent antibody includes known commercial recombinantly produced antibodies as outlined below.

By position as used herein is meant a location in the sequence of a protein. Positions may be numbered sequentially or according to an established format for example the EU index for antibody numbering.

By target antigen as used herein is meant the molecule that is bound specifically by the variable region of a given antibody. A target antigen may be a protein carbohydrate lipid or other chemical compound.

By variable region as used herein is meant the region of an immunoglobulin that comprises one or more Ig domains substantially encoded by any of the V V and or VH genes that make up the kappa lambda and heavy chain immunoglobulin genetic loci respectively.

By wild type or WT herein is meant an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that is found in nature including allelic variations. A WT protein has an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that has not been intentionally modified.

The present invention is directed to antibodies that exhibit increased binding to FcRn relative to a wild type antibody. For example in some instances increased binding results in cellular recycling of the antibody and hence increased half life. In addition antibodies exhibiting increased binding to FcRn and altered binding to other Fc receptors eg. Fc Rs find use in the present invention.

The present application is directed to antibodies that include amino acid modifications that modulate binding to FcRn. Of particular interest are antibodies that minimally comprise an Fc region or functional variant thereof that displays increased binding affinity to FcRn at lowered pH and do not exhibit substantially altered binding at higher pH.

Traditional antibody structural units typically comprise a tetramer. Each tetramer is typically composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light typically having a molecular weight of about 25 kDa and one heavy chain typically having a molecular weight of about 50 70 kDa . Human light chains are classified as kappa and lambda light chains. Heavy chains are classified as mu delta gamma alpha or epsilon and define the antibody s isotype as IgM IgD IgG IgA and IgE respectively. IgG has several subclasses including but not limited to IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4. IgM has subclasses including but not limited to IgM1 and IgM2. Thus isotype as used herein is meant any of the subclasses of immunoglobulins defined by the chemical and antigenic characteristics of their constant regions. The known human immunoglobulin isotypes are IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 IgA2 IgM1 IgM2 IgD and IgE.

The amino terminal portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. In the variable region three loops are gathered for each of the V domains of the heavy chain and light chain to form an antigen binding site. Each of the loops is referred to as a complementarity determining region hereinafter referred to as a CDR in which the variation in the amino acid sequence is most significant.

The carboxy terminal portion of each chain defines a constant region primarily responsible for effector function. Kabat et al. collected numerous primary sequences of the variable regions of heavy chains and light chains. Based on the degree of conservation of the sequences they classified individual primary sequences into the CDR and the framework and made a list thereof see SEQUENCES OF IMMUNOLOGICAL INTEREST 5th edition NIH publication No. 91 3242 E. A. Kabat et al. entirely incorporated by reference .

In the IgG subclass of immunoglobulins there are several immunoglobulin domains in the heavy chain. By immunoglobulin Ig domain herein is meant a region of an immunoglobulin having a distinct tertiary structure. Of interest in the present invention are the heavy chain domains including the constant heavy CH domains and the hinge domains. In the context of IgG antibodies the IgG isotypes each have three CH regions. Accordingly CH domains in the context of IgG are as follows CH1 refers to positions 118 220 according to the EU index as in Kabat. CH2 refers to positions 237 340 according to the EU index as in Kabat and CH3 refers to positions 341 447 according to the EU index as in Kabat.

Another type of Ig domain of the heavy chain is the hinge region. By hinge or hinge region or antibody hinge region or immunoglobulin hinge region herein is meant the flexible polypeptide comprising the amino acids between the first and second constant domains of an antibody. Structurally the IgG CH1 domain ends at EU position 220 and the IgG CH2 domain begins at residue EU position 237. Thus for IgG the antibody hinge is herein defined to include positions 221 D221 in IgG1 to 236 G236 in IgG1 wherein the numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat. In some embodiments for example in the context of an Fc region the lower hinge is included with the lower hinge generally referring to positions 226 or 230.

Of particular interest in the present invention are the Fc regions. By Fc or Fc region as used herein is meant the polypeptide comprising the constant region of an antibody excluding the first constant region immunoglobulin domain and in some cases part of the hinge. Thus Fc refers to the last two constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgA IgD and IgG the last three constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgE and IgM and the flexible hinge N terminal to these domains. For IgA and IgM Fc may include the J chain. For IgG as illustrated in Fc comprises immunoglobulin domains Cgamma2 and Cgamma3 Cg2 and Cg3 and the lower hinge region between Cgamma1 Cg1 and Cgamma2 Cg2 . Although the boundaries of the Fc region may vary the human IgG heavy chain Fc region is usually defined to include residues C226 or P230 to its carboxyl terminus wherein the numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat. Fc may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of an Fc polypeptide as described below. By Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant a polypeptide that comprises all or part of an Fc region. Fc polypeptides include antibodies Fc fusions isolated Fcs and Fc fragments.

In some embodiments the antibodies are full length. By full length antibody herein is meant the structure that constitutes the natural biological form of an antibody including variable and constant regions including one or more modifications as outlined herein.

Alternatively the antibodies can be a variety of structures including but not limited to antibody fragments monoclonal antibodies bispecific antibodies minibodies domain antibodies synthetic antibodies sometimes referred to herein as antibody mimetics chimeric antibodies humanized antibodies antibody fusions sometimes referred to as antibody conjugates and fragments of each respectively.

In one embodiment the antibody is an antibody fragment. Of particular interest are antibodies that comprise Fc regions Fc fusions and the constant region of the heavy chain CH1 hinge CH2 CH3 again also including constant heavy region fusions.

Specific antibody fragments include but are not limited to i the Fab fragment consisting of VL VH CL and CH1 domains ii the Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CH1 domains iii the Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single antibody iv the dAb fragment Ward et al. 1989 Nature 341 544 546 entirely incorporated by reference which consists of a single variable v isolated CDR regions vi F ab 2 fragments a bivalent fragment comprising two linked Fab fragments vii single chain Fv molecules scFv wherein a VH domain and a VL domain are linked by a peptide linker which allows the two domains to associate to form an antigen binding site Bird et al. 1988 Science 242 423 426 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 5879 5883 entirely incorporated by reference viii bispecific single chain Fv WO 03 11161 hereby incorporated by reference and ix diabodies or triabodies multivalent or multispecific fragments constructed by gene fusion Tomlinson et. al. 2000 Methods Enzymol. 326 461 479 WO94 13804 Holliger et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 6444 6448 all entirely incorporated by reference . The antibody fragments may be modified. For example the molecules may be stabilized by the incorporation of disulphide bridges linking the VH and VL domains Reiter et al. 1996 Nature Biotech. 14 1239 1245 entirely incorporated by reference .

In some embodiments the scaffold components can be a mixture from different species. As such if the protein is an antibody such antibody may be a chimeric antibody and or a humanized antibody. In general both chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies refer to antibodies that combine regions from more than one species. For example chimeric antibodies traditionally comprise variable region s from a mouse or rat in some cases and the constant region s from a human. Humanized antibodies generally refer to non human antibodies that have had the variable domain framework regions swapped for sequences found in human antibodies. Generally in a humanized antibody the entire antibody except the CDRs is encoded by a polynucleotide of human origin or is identical to such an antibody except within its CDRs. The CDRs some or all of which are encoded by nucleic acids originating in a non human organism are grafted into the beta sheet framework of a human antibody variable region to create an antibody the specificity of which is determined by the engrafted CDRs. The creation of such antibodies is described in e.g. WO 92 11018 Jones 1986 Nature 321 522 525 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 1536 all entirely incorporated by reference. Backmutation of selected acceptor framework residues to the corresponding donor residues is often required to regain affinity that is lost in the initial grafted construct U.S. Pat. No. 5 530 101 U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 761 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 762 U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 370 U.S. Pat. No. 5 859 205 U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 213 all entirely incorporated by reference . The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region typically that of a human immunoglobulin and thus will typically comprise a human Fc region. Humanized antibodies can also be generated using mice with a genetically engineered immune system. Roque et al. 2004 Biotechnol. Prog. 20 639 654 entirely incorporated by reference. A variety of techniques and methods for humanizing and reshaping non human antibodies are well known in the art See Tsurushita Vasquez 2004 Humanization of Monoclonal Antibodies Molecular Biology of B Cells 533 545 Elsevier Science USA and references cited therein all entirely incorporated by reference . Humanization methods include but are not limited to methods described in Jones et al. 1986321 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988332 323 329 Verhoeyen et al. 1988239 1534 1536 Queen et al. 198986 10029 33 He et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 1029 1035 Carter et al. 89 4285 9 Presta et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 20 4593 9 Gorman et al. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 4181 4185 O Connor et al. 199811 321 8 all entirely incorporated by reference. Humanization or other methods of reducing the immunogenicity of nonhuman antibody variable regions may include resurfacing methods as described for example in Roguska et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 969 973 entirely incorporated by reference. In one embodiment the parent antibody has been affinity matured as is known in the art. Structure based methods may be employed for humanization and affinity maturation for example as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590. Selection based methods may be employed to humanize and or affinity mature antibody variable regions including but not limited to methods described in Wu et al. 1999 J. Mol. Biol. 294 151 162 Baca et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 16 10678 10684 Rosok et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 37 22611 22618 Rader et al. 1998 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 8910 8915 Krauss et al. 2003 Protein Engineering 16 10 753 759 all entirely incorporated by reference. Other humanization methods may involve the grafting of only parts of the CDRs including but not limited to methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 09 810 510 Tan et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 1119 1125 De Pascalis et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 3076 3084 all entirely incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment the antibodies of the invention multispecific antibody and notably a bispecific antibody also sometimes referred to as diabodies . These are antibodies that bind to two or more different antigens. Diabodies can be manufactured in a variety of ways known in the art Holliger and Winter 1993 Current Opinion Biotechnol. 4 446 449 entirely incorporated by reference e.g. prepared chemically or from hybrid hybridomas.

In one embodiment the antibody is a minibody. Minibodies are minimized antibody like proteins comprising a scFv joined to a CH3 domain. Hu et al. 1996 Cancer Res. 56 3055 3061 entirely incorporated by reference. In some cases the scFv can be joined to the Fc region and may include some or the entire hinge region.

In one embodiment the antibodies of the invention are antibody fusion proteins sometimes referred to herein as an antibody conjugate . One type of antibody fusions comprises Fc fusions which join the Fc region with a conjugate partner. By Fc fusion as used herein is meant a protein wherein one or more polypeptides is operably linked to an Fc region. Fc fusion is herein meant to be synonymous with the terms immunoadhesin Ig fusion Ig chimera and receptor globulin sometimes with dashes as used in the prior art Chamow et al. 1996 Trends Biotechnol 14 52 60 Ashkenazi et al. 1997 Curr Opin Immunol 9 195 200 both entirely incorporated by reference . An Fc fusion combines the Fc region of an immunoglobulin with a fusion partner which in general can be any protein or small molecule. Virtually any protein or small molecule may be linked to Fc to generate an Fc fusion. Protein fusion partners may include but are not limited to the variable region of any antibody the target binding region of a receptor an adhesion molecule a ligand an enzyme a cytokine a chemokine or some other protein or protein domain. Small molecule fusion partners may include any therapeutic agent that directs the Fc fusion to a therapeutic target. Such targets may be any molecule preferably an extracellular receptor which is implicated in disease. Thus the IgG variants can be linked to one or more fusion partners. In one alternate embodiment the IgG variant is conjugated or operably linked to another therapeutic compound. The therapeutic compound may be a cytotoxic agent a chemotherapeutic agent a toxin a radioisotope a cytokine or other therapeutically active agent. The IgG may be linked to one of a variety of nonproteinaceous polymers e.g. polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyoxyalkylenes or copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol.

In addition to Fc fusions antibody fusions include the fusion of the constant region of the heavy chain with one or more fusion partners again including the variable region of any antibody while other antibody fusions are substantially or completely full length antibodies with fusion partners. In one embodiment a role of the fusion partner is to mediate target binding and thus it is functionally analogous to the variable regions of an antibody and in fact can be . Virtually any protein or small molecule may be linked to Fc to generate an Fc fusion or antibody fusion . Protein fusion partners may include but are not limited to the target binding region of a receptor an adhesion molecule a ligand an enzyme a cytokine a chemokine or some other protein or protein domain. Small molecule fusion partners may include any therapeutic agent that directs the Fc fusion to a therapeutic target. Such targets may be any molecule preferably an extracellular receptor which is implicated in disease.

The conjugate partner can be proteinaceous or non proteinaceous the latter generally being generated using functional groups on the antibody and on the conjugate partner. For example linkers are known in the art for example homo or hetero bifunctional linkers as are well known see 1994 Pierce Chemical Company catalog technical section on cross linkers pages 155 200 incorporated herein by reference .

Suitable conjugates include but are not limited to labels as described below drugs and cytotoxic agents including but not limited to cytotoxic drugs e.g. chemotherapeutic agents or toxins or active fragments of such toxins. Suitable toxins and their corresponding fragments include diptheria A chain exotoxin A chain ricin A chain abrin A chain curcin crotin phenomycin enomycin and the like. Cytotoxic agents also include radiochemicals made by conjugating radioisotopes to antibodies or binding of a radionuclide to a chelating agent that has been covalently attached to the antibody. Additional embodiments utilize calicheamicin auristatins geldanamycin maytansine and duocarmycins and analogs for the latter see U.S. 2003 0050331A1 entirely incorporated by reference.

Covalent modifications of antibodies are included within the scope of this invention and are generally but not always done post translationally. For example several types of covalent modifications of the antibody are introduced into the molecule by reacting specific amino acid residues of the antibody with an organic derivatizing agent that is capable of reacting with selected side chains or the N or C terminal residues.

Cysteinyl residues most commonly are reacted with haloacetates and corresponding amines such as chloroacetic acid or chloroacetamide to give carboxymethyl or carboxyamidomethyl derivatives. Cysteinyl residues may also be derivatized by reaction with bromotrifluoroacetone bromo 5 imidozoyl propionic acid chloroacetyl phosphate N alkylmaleimides 3 nitro 2 pyridyl disulfide methyl 2 pyridyl disulfide p chloromercuribenzoate 2 chloromercuri 4 nitrophenol or chloro 7 nitrobenzo 2 oxa 1 3 diazole and the like.

Histidyl residues are derivatized by reaction with diethylpyrocarbonate at pH 5.5 7.0 because this agent is relatively specific for the histidyl side chain. Para bromophenacyl bromide also is useful the reaction is preferably performed in 0.1M sodium cacodylate at pH 6.0.

Lysinyl and amino terminal residues are reacted with succinic or other carboxylic acid anhydrides. Derivatization with these agents has the effect of reversing the charge of the lysinyl residues. Other suitable reagents for derivatizing alpha amino containing residues include imidoesters such as methyl picolinimidate pyridoxal phosphate pyridoxal chloroborohydride trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid O methylisourea 2 4 pentanedione and transaminase catalyzed reaction with glyoxylate.

Arginyl residues are modified by reaction with one or several conventional reagents among them phenylglyoxal 2 3 butanedione 1 2 cyclohexanedione and ninhydrin. Derivatization of arginine residues requires that the reaction be performed in alkaline conditions because of the high pKa of the guanidine functional group. Furthermore these reagents may react with the groups of lysine as well as the arginine epsilon amino group.

The specific modification of tyrosyl residues may be made with particular interest in introducing spectral labels into tyrosyl residues by reaction with aromatic diazonium compounds or tetranitromethane. Most commonly N acetylimidizole and tetranitromethane are used to form O acetyl tyrosyl species and 3 nitro derivatives respectively. Tyrosyl residues are iodinated using 125I or 131I to prepare labeled proteins for use in radioimmunoassay the chloramine T method described above being suitable.

Carboxyl side groups aspartyl or glutamyl are selectively modified by reaction with carbodiimides R N C N R where R and R are optionally different alkyl groups such as 1 cyclohexyl 3 2 morpholinyl 4 ethyl carbodiimide or 1 ethyl 3 4 azonia 4 4 dimethylpentyl carbodiimide. Furthermore aspartyl and glutamyl residues are converted to asparaginyl and glutaminyl residues by reaction with ammonium ions.

Derivatization with bifunctional agents is useful for crosslinking antibodies to a water insoluble support matrix or surface for use in a variety of methods in addition to methods described below. Commonly used crosslinking agents include e.g. 1 1 bis diazoacetyl 2 phenylethane glutaraldehyde N hydroxysuccinimide esters for example esters with 4 azidosalicylic acid homobifunctional imidoesters including disuccinimidyl esters such as 3 3 dithiobis succinimidylpropionate and bifunctional maleimides such as bis N maleimido 1 8 octane. Derivatizing agents such as methyl 3 p azidophenyl dithio propioimidate yield photoactivatable intermediates that are capable of forming crosslinks in the presence of light. Alternatively reactive water insoluble matrices such as cyanogen bromide activated carbohydrates and the reactive substrates described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 969 287 3 691 016 4 195 128 4 247 642 4 229 537 and 4 330 440 all entirely incorporated by reference are employed for protein immobilization.

Glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues are frequently deamidated to the corresponding glutamyl and aspartyl residues respectively. Alternatively these residues are deamidated under mildly acidic conditions. Either form of these residues falls within the scope of this invention.

Other modifications include hydroxylation of proline and lysine phosphorylation of hydroxyl groups of seryl or threonyl residues methylation of the amino groups of lysine arginine and histidine side chains T. E. Creighton Proteins Structure and Molecular Properties W. H. Freeman Co. San Francisco pp. 79 86 1983 entirely incorporated by reference acetylation of the N terminal amine and amidation of any C terminal carboxyl group.

Another type of covalent modification is glycosylation. In another embodiment the IgG variants disclosed herein can be modified to include one or more engineered glycoforms. By engineered glycoform as used herein is meant a carbohydrate composition that is covalently attached to an IgG wherein said carbohydrate composition differs chemically from that of a parent IgG. Engineered glycoforms may be useful for a variety of purposes including but not limited to enhancing or reducing effector function. Engineered glycoforms may be generated by a variety of methods known in the art Uma a et al. 1999 Nat Biotechnol 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 Biotechnol Bioeng 74 288 294 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 26733 26740 Shinkawa et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 3466 3473 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 U.S. Ser. No. 10 113 929 PCT WO 00 61739A1 PCT WO 01 29246A1 PCT WO 02 31140A1 PCT WO 02 30954A1 all entirely incorporated by reference Potelligent technology Biowa Inc. Princeton N.J. GlycoMAb glycosylation engineering technology Glycart Biotechnology AG Z rich Switzerland . Many of these techniques are based on controlling the level of fucosylated and or bisecting oligosaccharides that are covalently attached to the Fc region for example by expressing an IgG in various organisms or cell lines engineered or otherwise for example Lec 13 CHO cells or rat hybridoma YB2 0 cells by regulating enzymes involved in the glycosylation pathway for example FUT8 1 6 fucosyltranserase and or 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII or by modifying carbohydrate s after the IgG has been expressed. Engineered glycoform typically refers to the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide thus an IgG variant for example an antibody or Fc fusion can include an engineered glycoform. Alternatively engineered glycoform may refer to the IgG variant that comprises the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide. As is known in the art glycosylation patterns can depend on both the sequence of the protein e.g. the presence or absence of particular glycosylation amino acid residues discussed below or the host cell or organism in which the protein is produced. Particular expression systems are discussed below.

Glycosylation of polypeptides is typically either N linked or O linked. N linked refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tri peptide sequences asparagine X serine and asparagine X threonine where X is any amino acid except proline are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus the presence of either of these tri peptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation site. O linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N acetylgalactosamine galactose or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid most commonly serine or threonine although 5 hydroxyproline or 5 hydroxylysine may also be used.

Addition of glycosylation sites to the antibody is conveniently accomplished by altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of the above described tri peptide sequences for N linked glycosylation sites . The alteration may also be made by the addition of or substitution by one or more serine or threonine residues to the starting sequence for O linked glycosylation sites . For ease the antibody amino acid sequence is preferably altered through changes at the DNA level particularly by mutating the DNA encoding the target polypeptide at preselected bases such that codons are generated that will translate into the desired amino acids.

Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on the antibody is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the protein. These procedures are advantageous in that they do not require production of the protein in a host cell that has glycosylation capabilities for N and O linked glycosylation. Depending on the coupling mode used the sugar s may be attached to a arginine and histidine b free carboxyl groups c free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine d free hydroxyl groups such as those of serine threonine or hydroxyproline e aromatic residues such as those of phenylalanine tyrosine or tryptophan or f the amide group of glutamine. These methods are described in WO 87 05330 and in Aplin and Wriston 1981 CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem. pp. 259 306 both entirely incorporated by reference.

Removal of carbohydrate moieties present on the starting antibody may be accomplished chemically or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation requires exposure of the protein to the compound trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in the cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar N acetylglucosamine or N acetylgalactosamine while leaving the polypeptide intact. Chemical deglycosylation is described by Hakimuddin et al. 1987 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259 52 and by Edge et al. 1981 Anal. Biochem. 118 131 both entirely incorporated by reference. Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of endo and exo glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. 1987 Meth. Enzymol. 138 350 entirely incorporated by reference. Glycosylation at potential glycosylation sites may be prevented by the use of the compound tunicamycin as described by Duskin et al. 1982 J. Biol. Chem. 257 3105 entirely incorporated by reference. Tunicamycin blocks the formation of protein N glycoside linkages.

Another type of covalent modification of the antibody comprises linking the antibody to various nonproteinaceous polymers including but not limited to various polyols such as polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol or polyoxyalkylenes in the manner set forth in for example 2005 2006 PEG Catalog from Nektar Therapeutics available at the Nektar website U.S. Pat. No. 4 640 835 4 496 689 4 301 144 4 670 417 4 791 192 or 4 179 337 all entirely incorporated by reference. In addition as is known in the art amino acid substitutions may be made in various positions within the antibody to facilitate the addition of polymers such as PEG. See for example U.S. Publication No. 2005 0114037A1 entirely incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments the covalent modification of the antibodies of the invention comprises the addition of one or more labels. In some cases these are considered antibody fusions. The term labelling group means any detectable label. In some embodiments the labelling group is coupled to the antibody via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labelling proteins are known in the art and may be used in performing the present invention.

In general labels fall into a variety of classes depending on the assay in which they are to be detected a isotopic labels which may be radioactive or heavy isotopes b magnetic labels e.g. magnetic particles c redox active moieties d optical dyes enzymatic groups e.g. horseradish peroxidase galactosidase luciferase alkaline phosphatase e biotinylated groups and f predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter e.g. leucine zipper pair sequences binding sites for secondary antibodies metal binding domains epitope tags etc. . In some embodiments the labelling group is coupled to the antibody via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labelling proteins are known in the art and may be used in performing the present invention.

Specific labels include optical dyes including but not limited to chromophores phosphors and fluorophores with the latter being specific in many instances. Fluorophores can be either small molecule fluores or proteinaceous fluores.

By fluorescent label is meant any molecule that may be detected via its inherent fluorescent properties. Suitable fluorescent labels include but are not limited to fluorescein rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine eosin erythrosin coumarin methyl coumarins pyrene Malacite green stilbene Lucifer Yellow Cascade BlueJ Texas Red IAEDANS EDANS BODIPY FL LC Red 640 Cy 5 Cy 5.5 LC Red 705 Oregon green the Alexa Fluor dyes Alexa Fluor 350 Alexa Fluor 430 Alexa Fluor 488 Alexa Fluor 546 Alexa Fluor 568 Alexa Fluor 594 Alexa Fluor 633 Alexa Fluor 660 Alexa Fluor 680 Cascade Blue Cascade Yellow and R phycoerythrin PE Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. FITC Rhodamine and Texas Red Pierce Rockford Ill. Cy5 Cy5.5 Cy7 Amersham Life Science Pittsburgh Pa. . Suitable optical dyes including fluorophores are described in Molecular Probes Handbook by Richard P. Haugland entirely incorporated by reference.

Suitable proteinaceous fluorescent labels also include but are not limited to green fluorescent protein including a or species of GFP Chalfie et al. 1994 Science 263 802 805 EGFP Clontech Laboratories Inc. Genbank Accession Number U55762 blue fluorescent protein BFP Quantum Biotechnologies Inc. 1801 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West 8th Floor Montreal Quebec Canada H3H 1J9 Stauber 1998 Biotechniques 24 462 471 Heim et al. 1996 Curr. Biol. 6 178 182 enhanced yellow fluorescent protein EYFP Clontech Laboratories Inc. luciferase Ichiki et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 150 5408 5417 galactosidase Nolan et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 2603 2607 and WO92 15673 WO95 07463 WO98 14605 WO98 26277 WO99 49019 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 292 658 5 418 155 5 683 888 5 741 668 5 777 079 5 804 387 5 874 304 5 876 995 5 925 558 . All of the above cited references in this paragraph are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the invention provides variant IgG proteins. At a minimum IgG variants comprise an antibody fragment comprising the CH2 CH3 region of the heavy chain. In addition suitable IgG variants comprise Fc domains e.g. including the lower hinge region as well as IgG variants comprising the constant region of the heavy chain CH1 hinge CH2 CH3 also being useful in the present invention all of which can be fused to fusion partners.

An IgG variant includes one or more amino acid modifications relative to a parent IgG polypeptide in some cases relative to the wild type IgG. The IgG variant can have one or more optimized properties. An IgG variant differs in amino acid sequence from its parent IgG by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Thus IgG variants have at least one amino acid modification compared to the parent. Alternatively the IgG variants may have more than one amino acid modification as compared to the parent for example from about one to fifty amino acid modifications preferably from about one to ten amino acid modifications and most preferably from about one to about five amino acid modifications compared to the parent.

Thus the sequences of the IgG variants and those of the parent Fc polypeptide are substantially homologous. For example the variant IgG variant sequences herein will possess about 80 homology with the parent IgG variant sequence preferably at least about 90 homology and most preferably at least about 95 homology. Modifications may be made genetically using molecular biology or may be made enzymatically or chemically.

Virtually any antigen may be targeted by the IgG variants including but not limited to proteins subunits domains motifs and or epitopes belonging to the following list of target antigens which includes both soluble factors such as cytokines and membrane bound factors including transmembrane receptors 17 IA 4 1BB 4Dc 6 keto PGF1a 8 iso PGF2a 8 oxo dG A1 Adenosine Receptor A33 ACE ACE 2 Activin Activin A Activin AB Activin B Activin C Activin RIA Activin RIA ALK 2 Activin RIB ALK 4 Activin RIIA Activin RIIB ADAM ADAM10 ADAM12 ADAM15 ADAM17 TACE ADAM8 ADAM9 ADAMTS ADAMTS4 ADAMTS5 Addressins aFGF ALCAM ALK ALK 1 ALK 7 alpha 1 antitrypsin alpha V beta 1 antagonist ANG Ang APAF 1 APE APJ APP APRIL AR ARC ART Artemin anti Id ASPARTIC Atrial natriuretic factor av b3 integrin Axl b2M B7 1 B7 2 B7 H B lymphocyte Stimulator BlyS BACE BACE 1 Bad BAFF BAFF R Bag 1 BAK Bax BCA 1 BCAM Bcl BCMA BDNF b ECGF bFGF BID Bik BIM BLC BL CAM BLK BMP BMP 2 BMP 2a BMP 3 Osteogenin BMP 4 BMP 2b BMP 5 BMP 6 Vgr 1 BMP 7 OP 1 BMP 8 BMP 8a OP 2 BMPR BMPR IA ALK 3 BMPR IB ALK 6 BRK 2 RPK 1 BMPR II BRK 3 BMPs b NGF BOK Bombesin Bone derived neurotrophic factor BPDE BPDE DNA BTC complement factor 3 C3 C3a C4 C5 CSa C10 CAl25 CAD 8 Calcitonin cAMP carcinoembryonic antigen CEA carcinoma associated antigen Cathepsin A Cathepsin B Cathepsin C DPPI Cathepsin D Cathepsin E Cathepsin H Cathepsin L Cathepsin O Cathepsin S Cathepsin V Cathepsin X Z P CBL CCI CCK2 CCL CCL1 CCL11 CCL12 CCL13 CCL14 CCL15 CCL16 CCL17 CCL18 CCL19 CCL2 CCL20 CCL21 CCL22 CCL23 CCL24 CCL25 CCL26 CCL27 CCL28 CCL3 CCL4 CCL5 CCL6 CCL7 CCL8 CCL9 10 CCR CCR1 CCR10 CCR10 CCR2 CCR3 CCR4 CCR5 CCR6 CCR7 CCR8 CCR9 CD1 CD2 CD3 CD3E CD4 CD5 CD6 CD7 CD8 CD10 CD11a CD11b CD11c CD13 CD14 CD15 CD16 CD18 CD19 CD20 CD21 CD22 CD23 CD25 CD27L CD28 CD29 CD30 CD30L CD32 CD33 p67 proteins CD34 CD38 CD40 CD40L CD44 CD45 CD46 CD49a CD52 CD54 CD55 CD56 CD61 CD64 CD66e CD74 CD80 B7 1 CD89 CD95 CD123 CD137 CD138 CD140a CD146 CD147 CD148 CD152 CD164 CEACAM5 CFTR cGMP CINC toxin toxin CKb8 1 CLC CMV CMV UL CNTF CNTN 1 COX C Ret CRG 2 CT 1 CTACK CTGF CTLA 4 CX3CL1 CX3CR1 CXCL CXCL1 CXCL2 CXCL3 CXCL4 CXCL5 CXCL6 CXCL7 CXCL8 CXCL9 CXCL10 CXCL11 CXCL12 CXCL13 CXCL14 CXCL15 CXCL16 CXCR CXCR1 CXCR2 CXCR3 CXCR4 CXCR5 CXCR6 cytokeratin tumor associated antigen DAN DCC DcR3 DC SIGN Decay accelerating factor des 1 3 IGF 1 brain IGF 1 Dhh digoxin DNAM 1 Dnase Dpp DPPIV CD26 Dtk ECAD EDA EDA A1 EDA A2 EDAR EGF EGFR ErbB 1 EMA EMMPRIN ENA endothelin receptor Enkephalinase eNOS Eot eotaxin1 EpCAM Ephrin B2 EphB4 EPO ERCC E selectin ET 1 Factor IIa Factor VII Factor VIIIc Factor IX fibroblast activation protein FAP Fas FcR1 FEN 1 Ferritin FGF FGF 19 FGF 2 FGF3 FGF 8 FGFR FGFR 3 Fibrin FL FLIP Flt 3 Flt 4 Follicle stimulating hormone Fractalkine FZD1 FZD2 FZD3 FZD4 FZD5 FZD6 FZD7 FZD8 FZD9 FZD10 G250 Gas 6 GCP 2 GCSF GD2 GD3 GDF GDF 1 GDF 3 Vgr 2 GDF 5 BMP 14 CDMP 1 GDF 6 BMP 13 CDMP 2 GDF 7 BMP 12 CDMP 3 GDF 8 Myostatin GDF 9 GDF 15 MIC 1 GDNF GDNF GFAP GFRa 1 GFR alpha1 GFR alpha2 GFR alpha3 GITR Glucagon Glut 4 glycoprotein IIb IIIa GP IIb IIIa GM CSF gp130 gp72 GRO Growth hormone releasing factor Hapten NP cap or NIP cap HB EGF HCC HCMV gB envelope glycoprotein HCMV gH envelope glycoprotein HCMV UL Hemopoietic growth factor HGF Hep B gp120 heparanase Her2 Her2 neu ErbB 2 Her3 ErbB 3 Her4 ErbB 4 herpes simplex virus HSV gB glycoprotein HSV gD glycoprotein HGFA High molecular weight melanoma associated antigen HMW MAA HIV gp120 HIV IIIB gp120 V3 loop HLA HLA DR HM1.24 HMFG PEM HRG Hrk human cardiac myosin human cytomegalovirus HCMV human growth hormone HGH HVEM I 309 IAP ICAM ICAM 1 ICAM 3 ICE ICOS IFNg Ig IgA receptor IgE IGF IGF binding proteins IGF 1R IGFBP IGF I IGF II IL IL 1 IL 1R IL 2 IL 2R IL 4 IL 4R IL 5 IL 5R IL 6 IL 6R IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 15 IL 18 IL 18R IL 23 interferon INF alpha INF beta INF gamma Inhibin iNOS Insulin A chain Insulin B chain Insulin like growth factor 1 integrin alpha2 integrin alpha3 integrin alpha4 integrin alpha4 beta1 integrin alpha4 beta7 integrin alpha5 alphaV integrin alpha5 beta1 integrin alpha5 beta3 integrin alpha6 integrin beta1 integrin beta2 interferon gamma IP 10 I TAC JE Kallikrein 2 Kallikrein 5 Kallikrein 6 Kallikrein 11 Kallikrein 12 Kallikrein 14 Kallikrein 15 Kallikrein L1 Kallikrein L2 Kallikrein L3 Kallikrein L4 KC KDR Keratinocyte Growth Factor KGF laminin 5 LAMP LAP LAP TGF 1 Latent TGF 1 Latent TGF 1 bpi LBP LDGF LECT2 Lefty Lewis Y antigen Lewis Y related antigen LFA 1 LFA 3 Lfo LIF LIGHT lipoproteins LIX LKN Lptn L Selectin LT a LT b LTB4 LTBP 1 Lung surfactant Luteinizing hormone Lymphotoxin Beta Receptor Mac 1 MAdCAM MAG MAP2 MARC MCAM MCAM MCK 2 MCP M CSF MDC Mer METALLOPROTEASES MGDF receptor MGMT MHC HLA DR MIF MIG MIP MIP 1 alpha MK MMAC1 MMP MMP 1 MMP 10 MMP 11 MMP 12 MMP 13 MMP 14 MMP 15 MMP 2 MMP 24 MMP 3 MMP 7 MMP 8 MMP 9 MPIF Mpo MSK MSP mucin Mud MUC18 Muellerian inhibitin substance Mug MuSK NAIP NAP NCAD N Cadherin NCA 90 NCAM NCAM Neprilysin Neurotrophin 3 4 or 6 Neurturin Neuronal growth factor NGF NGFR NGF beta nNOS NO NOS Npn NRG 3 NT NTN OB OGG1 OPG OPN OSM OX40L OX40R p150 p95 PADPr Parathyroid hormone PARC PARP PBR PBSF PCAD P Cadherin PCNA PDGF PDGF PDK 1 PECAM PEM PF4 PGE PGF PGI2 PGJ2 PIN PLA2 placental alkaline phosphatase PLAP PIGF PLP PP14 Proinsulin Prorelaxin Protein C PS PSA PSCA prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA PTEN PTHrp Ptk PTN R51 RANK RANKL RANTES RANTES Relaxin A chain Relaxin B chain renin respiratory syncytial virus RSV F RSV Fgp Ret Rheumatoid factors RLIP76 RPA2 RSK S100 SCF KL SDF 1 SERINE Serum albumin sFRP 3 Shh SIGIRR SK 1 SLAM SLPI SMAC SMDF SMOH SOD SPARC Stat STEAP STEAP II TACE TACI TAG 72 tumor associated glycoprotein 72 TARC TCA 3 T cell receptors e.g. T cell receptor alpha beta TdT TECK TEM1 TEM5 TEM7 TEM8 TERT testicular PLAP like alkaline phosphatase TfR TGF TGF alpha TGF beta TGF beta Pan Specific TGF beta RI ALK 5 TGF beta RII TGF beta RIIb TGF beta RIII TGF beta1 TGF beta2 TGF beta3 TGF beta4 TGF beta5 Thrombin Thymus Ck 1 Thyroid stimulating hormone Tie TIMP TIQ Tissue Factor TMEFF2 Tmpo TMPRSS2 TNF TNF alpha TNF alpha beta TNF beta2 TNFc TNF RI TNF RII TNFRSF10A TRAIL R1 Apo 2 DR4 TNFRSF10B TRAIL R2DR5 KILLER TRICK 2A TRICK B TNFRSF10C TRAIL R3 DcR1 LIT TRID TNFRSF10D TRAIL R4 DcR2 TRUNDD TNFRSF11A RANK ODF R TRANCE R TNFRSF11B OPG OCIF TR1 TNFRSF12 TWEAK R FN14 TNFRSF13B TACI TNFRSF13C BAFF R TNFRSF14 HVEM ATAR HveA LIGHT R TR2 TNFRSF16 NGFR p75NTR TNFRSF17 BCMA TNFRSF18 GITR ATTR TNFRSF19 TROY TAJ TRADE TNFRSF19L RELT TNFRSF1A TNF RI CD120a p55 60 TNFRSF1B TNF RII CD120b p75 80 TNFRSF26 TNFRH3 TNFRSF3 LTbR TNF RIII TNFC R TNFRSF4 Ox40 ACT35 TXGP1 R TNFRSF5 CD40 p50 TNFRSF6 Fas Apo 1 APT1 CD95 TNFRSF6B DcR3M68 TR6 TNFRSF7 CD27 TNFRSF8 CD30 TNFRSF9 4 1BB CD137 ILA TNFRSF21 DR6 TNFRSF22 DcTRAIL R2TNFRH2 TNFRST23 DcTRAIL R1 TNFRH1 TNFRSF25 DR3 Apo 3 LARD TR 3 TRAMP WSL 1 TNFSF10 TRAIL Apo 2 Ligand TL2 TNFSF11 TRANCE RANK Ligand ODF OPG Ligand TNFSF12 TWEAK Apo 3 Ligand DR3 Ligand TNFSF13 APRIL TALL2 TNFSF13B BAFF BLYS TALL1 THANK TNFSF20 TNFSF14 LIGHT HVEM Ligand LTg TNFSF15 TL1A VEGI TNFSF18 GITR Ligand AITR Ligand TL6 TNFSF1A TNF a Conectin DIF TNFSF2 TNFSF1B TNF b LTa TNFSF1 TNFSF3 LTb TNFC p33 TNFSF4 Ox 40 Ligand gp34 TXGP1 TNFSF5 CD40 Ligand CD154 gp39 HIGM1 IMD3 TRAP TNFSF6 Fas Ligand Apo 1 Ligand APT1 Ligand TNFSF7 CD27 Ligand CD70 TNFSF8 CD30 Ligand CD153 TNFSF9 4 1BB Ligand CD137 Ligand TP 1 t PA Tpo TRAIL TRAIL R TRAIL R1 TRAIL R2 TRANCE transferring receptor TRF Trk TROP 2 TSG TSLP tumor associated antigen CA 125 tumor associated antigen expressing Lewis Y related carbohydrate TWEAK TXB2 Ung uPAR uPAR 1 Urokinase VCAM VCAM 1 VECAD VE Cadherin VE cadherin 2 VEFGR 1 flt 1 VEGF VEGFR VEGFR 3 flt 4 VEGI VIM Viral antigens VLA VLA 1 VLA 4 VNR integrin von Willebrands factor WI F 1 WNT1 WNT2 WNT2B 13 WNT3 WNT3A WNT4 WNT5A WNT5B WNT6 WNT7A WNT7B WNT8A WNT8B WNT9A WNT9A WNT9B WNT10A WNT10B WNT11 WNT16 XCL1 XCL2 XCR1 XCR1 XEDAR XIAP XPD and receptors for hormones and growth factors.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned list of targets refers not only to specific proteins and biomolecules but the biochemical pathway or pathways that comprise them. For example reference to CTLA 4 as a target antigen implies that the ligands and receptors that make up the T cell co stimulatory pathway including CTLA 4 B7 1 B7 2 CD28 and any other undiscovered ligands or receptors that bind these proteins are also targets. Thus target as used herein refers not only to a specific biomolecule but the set of proteins that interact with said target and the members of the biochemical pathway to which said target belongs. One skilled in the art will further appreciate that any of the aforementioned target antigens the ligands or receptors that bind them or other members of their corresponding biochemical pathway may be operably linked to the Fc variants of the present invention in order to generate an Fc fusion. Thus for example an Fc fusion that targets EGFR could be constructed by operably linking an Fc variant to EGF TGF b or any other ligand discovered or undiscovered that binds EGFR. Accordingly an Fc variant of the present invention could be operably linked to EGFR in order to generate an Fc fusion that binds EGF TGF b or any other ligand discovered or undiscovered that binds EGFR. Thus virtually any polypeptide whether a ligand receptor or some other protein or protein domain including but not limited to the aforementioned targets and the proteins that compose their corresponding biochemical pathways may be operably linked to the Fc variants of the present invention to develop an Fc fusion.

The choice of suitable antigen depends on the desired application. For anti cancer treatment it is desirable to have a target whose expression is restricted to the cancerous cells. Some targets that have proven especially amenable to antibody therapy are those with signaling functions. Other therapeutic antibodies exert their effects by blocking signaling of the receptor by inhibiting the binding between a receptor and its cognate ligand. Another mechanism of action of therapeutic antibodies is to cause receptor down regulation. Other antibodies do not work by signaling through their target antigen. In some cases antibodies directed against infectious disease agents are used.

In one embodiment the Fc variants of the present invention are incorporated into an antibody against a cytokine. Alternatively the Fc variants are fused or conjugated to a cytokine. By cytokine as used herein is meant a generic term for proteins released by one cell population that act on another cell as intercellular mediators. For example as described in Penichet et al. 2001 J Immunol Methods 248 91 101 expressly incorporated by reference cytokines may be fused to antibody to provide an array of desirable properties. Examples of such cytokines are lymphokines monokines and traditional polypeptide hormones. Included among the cytokines are growth hormone such as human growth hormone N methionyl human growth hormone and bovine growth hormone parathyroid hormone thyroxine insulin proinsulin relaxin prorelaxin glycoprotein hormones such as follicle stimulating hormone FSH thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and luteinizing hormone LH hepatic growth factor fibroblast growth factor prolactin placental lactogen tumor necrosis factor alpha and beta mullerian inhibiting substance mouse gonadotropin associated peptide inhibin activin vascular endothelial growth factor integrin thrombopoietin TPO nerve growth factors such as NGF beta platelet growth factor transforming growth factors TGFs such as TGF alpha and TGF beta insulin like growth factor I and II erythropoietin EPO osteoinductive factors interferons such as interferon alpha beta and gamma colony stimulating factors CSFs such as macrophage CSF M CSF granulocyte macrophage CSF GM CSF and granulocyte CSF G CSF interleukins ILs such as IL 1 IL 1alpha IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 IL 15 a tumor necrosis factor such as TNF alpha or TNF beta C5a and other polypeptide factors including LIF and kit ligand KL . As used herein the term cytokine includes proteins from natural sources or from recombinant cell culture and biologically active equivalents of the native sequence cytokines.

Cytokines and soluble targets such as TNF superfamily members are preferred targets for use with the variants of the present invention. For example anti VEGF anti CTLA 4 and anti TNF antibodies or fragments thereof are particularly good antibodies for the use of Fc variants that increase the FcRn binding. Therapeutics against these targets are frequently involved in the treatment of autoimmune diseases and require multiple injections over long time periods. Therefore longer serum half lives and less frequent treatments brought about from the variants of the present invention are particularly preferred.

A number of antibodies and Fc fusions that are approved for use in clinical trials or in development may benefit from the Fc variants of the present invention. These antibodies and Fc fusions are herein referred to as clinical products and candidates . Thus in a preferred embodiment the Fc polypeptides of the present invention may find use in a range of clinical products and candidates. For example a number of antibodies that target CD20 may benefit from the Fc polypeptides of the present invention. For example the Fc polypeptides of the present invention may find use in an antibody that is substantially similar to rituximab Rituxan IDEC Genentech Roche see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137 a chimeric anti CD20 antibody approved to treat Non Hodgkin s lymphoma HuMax CD20 an anti CD20 currently being developed by Genmab an anti CD20 antibody described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 500 362 AME 133 Applied Molecular Evolution hA20 Immunomedics Inc. HumaLYM Intracel and PRO70769 PCT US2003 040426 entitled Immunoglobulin Variants and Uses Thereof . A number of antibodies that target members of the family of epidermal growth factor receptors including EGFR ErbB 1 Her2 neu ErbB 2 Her3 ErbB 3 Her4 ErbB 4 may benefit from the Fc polypeptides of the present invention. For example the Fc polypeptides of the present invention may find use in an antibody that is substantially similar to trastuzumab Herceptin Genentech see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 a humanized anti Her2 neu antibody approved to treat breast cancer pertuzumab rhuMab 2C4 Omnitarg currently being developed by Genentech an anti Her2 antibody described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 753 894 cetuximab Erbitux Imclone U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 533 PCT WO 96 40210 a chimeric anti EGFR antibody in clinical trials for a variety of cancers ABX EGF U.S. Pat. No. 6 235 883 currently being developed by Abgenix Immunex Amgen HuMax EGFr U.S. Ser. No. 10 172 317 currently being developed by Genmab 425 EMD55900 EMD62000 and EMD72000 Merck KGaA U.S. Pat. No. 5 558 864 Murthy et al. 1987 Arch Biochem Biophys. 252 2 549 60 Rodeck et al. 1987 J Cell Biochem. 35 4 315 20 Kettleborough et al. 1991 Protein Eng. 4 7 773 83 ICR62 Institute of Cancer Research PCT WO 95 20045 Modjtahedi et al. 1993 J. Cell Biophys. 1993 22 1 3 129 46 Modjtahedi et al. 1993 Br J. Cancer. 1993 67 2 247 53 Modjtahedi et al 1996 Br J Cancer 73 2 228 35 Modjtahedi et al 2003 Int J Cancer 105 2 273 80 TheraCIM hR3 YM Biosciences Canada and Centro de Immunologia Molecular Cuba U.S. Pat. No. 5 891 996 U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 883 Mateo et al 1997 Immunotechnology 3 1 71 81 mAb 806 Ludwig Institue for Cancer Research Memorial Sloan Kettering Jungbluth et al. 2003 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 100 2 639 44 KSB 102 KS Biomedix MR1 1 IVAX National Cancer Institute PCT WO 0162931A2 and SC100 Scancell PCT WO 01 88138 . In another preferred embodiment the Fc polypeptides of the present invention may find use in alemtuzumab Campath Millenium a humanized monoclonal antibody currently approved for treatment of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The Fc polypeptides of the present invention may find use in a variety of antibodies or Fc fusions that are substantially similar to other clinical products and candidates including but not limited to muromonab CD3 Orthoclone OKT3 an anti CD3 antibody developed by Ortho Biotech Johnson Johnson ibritumomab tiuxetan Zevalin an anti CD20 antibody developed by IDEC Schering AG gemtuzumab ozogamicin Mylotarg an anti CD33 p67 protein antibody developed by Celltech Wyeth alefacept Amevive an anti LFA 3 Fc fusion developed by Biogen abciximab ReoPro developed by Centocor Lilly basiliximab Simulect developed by Novartis palivizumab Synagis developed by Medlmmune infliximab Remicade an anti TNFalpha antibody developed by Centocor adalimumab Humira an anti TNFalpha antibody developed by Abbott Humicade an anti TNFalpha antibody developed by Celltech etanercept Enbrel an anti TNFalpha Fc fusion developed by Immunex Amgen ABX CBL an anti CD147 antibody being developed by Abgenix ABX IL8 an anti IL8 antibody being developed by Abgenix ABX MA1 an anti MUC18 antibody being developed by Abgenix Pemtumomab R1549 90Y muHMFG1 an anti MUC1 In development by Antisoma Therex R1550 an anti MUC1 antibody being developed by Antisoma AngioMab AS1405 being developed by Antisoma HuBC 1 being developed by Antisoma Thioplatin AS1407 being developed by Antisoma Antegren natalizumab an anti alpha 4 beta 1 VLA 4 and alpha 4 beta 7 antibody being developed by Biogen VLA 1 mAb an anti VLA 1 integrin antibody being developed by Biogen LTBR mAb an anti lymphotoxin beta receptor LTBR antibody being developed by Biogen CAT 152 an anti TGF 2 antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology J695 an anti IL 12 antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology and Abbott CAT 192 an anti TGF 1 antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology and Genzyme CAT 213 an anti Eotaxin1 antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology LymphoStat B an anti Blys antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology and Human Genome Sciences Inc. TRAIL R1 mAb an anti TRAIL R1 antibody being developed by Cambridge Antibody Technology and Human Genome Sciences Inc. Avastin bevacizumab rhuMAb VEGF an anti VEGF antibody being developed by Genentech an anti HER receptor family antibody being developed by Genentech Anti Tissue Factor ATF an anti Tissue Factor antibody being developed by Genentech Xolair Omalizumab an anti IgE antibody being developed by Genentech Raptiva Efalizumab an anti CD11a antibody being developed by Genentech and Xoma MLN 02 Antibody formerly LDP 02 being developed by Genentech and Millenium Pharmaceuticals HuMax CD4 an anti CD4 antibody being developed by Genmab HuMax IL15 an anti IL15 antibody being developed by Genmab and Amgen HuMax Inflam being developed by Genmab and Medarex HuMax Cancer an anti Heparanase I antibody being developed by Genmab and Medarex and Oxford GcoSciences HuMax Lymphoma being developed by Genmab and Amgen HuMax TAC being developed by Genmab IDEC 131 and anti CD40L antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals IDEC 151 Clenoliximab an anti CD4 antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals IDEC 114 an anti CD80 antibody being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals IDEC 152 an anti CD23 being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals anti macrophage migration factor MIF antibodies being developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals BEC2 an anti idiotypic antibody being developed by Imclone IMC 1C11 an anti KDR antibody being developed by Imclone DC101 an anti flk 1 antibody being developed by Imclone anti VE cadherin antibodies being developed by Imclone CEA Cide labetuzumab an anti carcinoembryonic antigen CEA antibody being developed by Immunomedics LymphoCide Epratuzumab an anti CD22 antibody being developed by Immunomedics AFP Cide being developed by Immunomedics MyelomaCide being developed by Immunomedics LkoCide being developed by Immunomedics ProstaCide being developed by Immunomedics MDX 010 an anti CTLA4 antibody being developed by Medarex MDX 060 an anti CD30 antibody being developed by Medarex MDX 070 being developed by Medarex MDX 018 being developed by Medarex Osidem IDM 1 and anti Her2 antibody being developed by Medarex and Immuno Designed Molecules HuMax CD4 an anti CD4 antibody being developed by Medarex and Genmab HuMax IL15 an anti IL15 antibody being developed by Medarex and Genmab CNTO 148 an anti TNF antibody being developed by Medarex and Centocor J J CNTO 1275 an anti cytokine antibody being developed by Centocor J J MOR101 and MOR102 anti intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM 1 CD54 antibodies being developed by MorphoSys MOR201 an anti fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 FGFR 3 antibody being developed by MorphoSys Nuvion visilizumab an anti CD3 antibody being developed by Protein Design Labs HuZAF an anti gamma interferon antibody being developed by Protein Design Labs Anti 5 1 Integrin being developed by Protein Design Labs anti IL 12 being developed by Protein Design Labs ING 1 an anti Ep CAM antibody being developed by Xoma and MLN01 an anti Beta2 integrin antibody being developed by Xoma all of the above cited references in this paragraph are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The Fc polypeptides of the present invention may be incorporated into the aforementioned clinical candidates and products or into antibodies and Fc fusions that are substantially similar to them. The Fc polypeptides of the present invention may be incorporated into versions of the aforementioned clinical candidates and products that are humanized affinity matured engineered or modified in some other way.

In one embodiment the Fc polypeptides of the present invention are used for the treatment of autoimmune inflammatory or transplant indications. Target antigens and clinical products and candidates that are relevant for such diseases include but are not limited to anti 4 7 integrin antibodies such as LDP 02 anti beta2 integrin antibodies such as LDP 01 anti complement C5 antibodies such as 5G1.1 anti CD2 antibodies such as BTI 322 MEDI 507 anti CD3 antibodies such as OKT3 SMART anti CD3 anti CD4 antibodies such as IDEC 151 MDX CD4 OKT4A anti CD11a antibodies anti CD14 antibodies such as IC14 anti CD18 antibodies anti CD23 antibodies such as IDEC 152 anti CD25 antibodies such as Zenapax anti CD40L antibodies such as 5c8 Antova IDEC 131 anti CD64 antibodies such as MDX 33 anti CD80 antibodies such as IDEC 114 anti CD147 antibodies such as ABX CBL anti E selectin antibodies such as CDP850 anti gpIIb IIIa antibodies such as ReoPro Abcixima anti ICAM 3 antibodies such as ICM3 anti ICE antibodies such as VX 740 anti FcR1 antibodies such as MDX 33 anti IgE antibodies such as rhuMab E25 anti IL 4 antibodies such as SB 240683 anti IL 5 antibodies such as SB 240563 SCH55700 anti IL 8 antibodies such as ABX IL8 anti interferon gamma antibodies anti TNF TNF TNF TNF TNF alpha antibodies such as CDP571 CDP870 D2E7 Infliximab MAK 195F and anti VLA 4 antibodies such as Antegren.

Fc variants of the present invention such as those with increased binding to FcRn may be utilized in TNF inhibitor molecules to provide enhanced properties. Useful TNF inhibitor molecules include any molecule that inhibits the action of TNF alpha in a mammal. Suitable examples include the Fc fusion Enbrel etanercept and the antibodies Humira adalimumab and Remicade infliximab . Monoclonal antibodies such as Remicade and Humira engineered using the Fc variants of the present invention to increase FcFn binding may translate to better efficacy through an increased half life.

In some embodiments antibodies against infectious diseases are used. Antibodies against eukaryotic cells include antibodies targeting yeast cells including but not limited to and and and

Antibodies against additional fungal cells are also useful including target antigens associated with strains including and as well as species of and among others

Antibodies directed against target antigens associated with protozoa include but are not limited to antibodies associated with species including spp. and

Antibodies against prokaryotic antigens are also useful including antibodies against suitable bacteria such as pathogenic and non pathogenic prokaryotes including but not limited to including e.g. e.g. Enterotoxigenic e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. e.g. spp. spp. SEB toxin B O157 H7 spp. species sp. sp. sp. sp. and the like.

In some aspects the antibodies are directed against viral infections these viruses include but are not limited to including orthomyxoviruses e.g. influenza virus paramyxoviruses e.g respiratory syncytial virus mumps virus measles virus adenoviruses rhinoviruses coronaviruses reoviruses togaviruses e.g. rubella virus parvoviruses poxviruses e.g. variola virus vaccinia virus enteroviruses e.g. poliovirus coxsackievirus hepatitis viruses including A B and C herpesviruses e.g. Herpes simplex virus varicella zoster virus cytomegalovirus Epstein Barr virus rotaviruses Norwalk viruses hantavirus arenavirus rhabdovirus e.g. rabies virus retroviruses including HIV HTLV I and II papovaviruses e.g. papillomavirus polyomaviruses and picornaviruses and the like.

The present application also provides IgG variants that are optimized for a variety of therapeutically relevant properties. An IgG variant that is engineered or predicted to display one or more optimized properties is herein referred to as an optimized IgG variant . The most preferred properties that may be optimized include but are not limited to enhanced or reduced affinity for FcRn and increased or decreased in vivo half life. Suitable embodiments include antibodies that exhibit increased binding affinity to FcRn at lowered pH such as the pH associated with endosomes e.g. pH 6.0 while maintaining the reduced affinity at higher pH such as 7.4. to allow increased uptake into endosomes but normal release rates. Similarly these antibodies with modulated FcRn binding may optionally have other desirable properties such as modulated Fc R binding such as outlined in U.S. Ser. Nos. 11 174 287 11 124 640 10 822 231 10 672 280 10 379 392 and the patent application entitled IgG Immunoglobulin variants with optimized effector function filed on Oct. 21 2005 having application Ser. No. 11 256 060. That is optimized properties also include but are not limited to enhanced or reduced affinity for an Fc R. In one optional embodiment the IgG variants are optimized to possess enhanced affinity for a human activating Fc R preferably Fc RIIIa in addition to the FcRn binding profile. In yet another optional alternate embodiment the IgG variants are optimized to possess reduced affinity for the human inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. That is particular embodiments embrace the use of antibodies that show increased binding to FcRn and increased binding to Fc RIIIa. Other embodiments utilize use of antibodies that show increased binding to FcRn and increased binding to Fc RIIIa. These embodiments are anticipated to provide IgG polypeptides with enhanced therapeutic properties in humans for example enhanced effector function and greater anti cancer potency. In an alternate embodiment the IgG variants are optimized to have increased or reduced affinity for FcRn and increased or decreased affinity for a human Fc R including but not limited to Fc RI Fc RIIa Fc RIIb Fc RIIc Fc RIIIa and Fc RIIIb including their allelic variations. These embodiments are anticipated to provide IgG polypeptides with enhanced therapeutic properties in humans for example increased serum half life and reduced effector function. In other embodiments IgG variants provide enhanced affinity for FcRn and enhanced affinity for one or more Fc Rs yet reduced affinity for one or more other Fc Rs. For example an IgG variant may have enhanced binding to FcRn and Fc RIIIa yet reduced binding to Fc RIIb. Alternately an IgG variant may have reduced binding to FcRn and to Fc R s. In another embodiment an IgG variant may have reduced affinity for FcRn and enhanced affinity for Fc RIIb yet reduced affinity to one or more activating Fc Rs. In yet another embodiment an IgG variant may have increased serum half life and reduced effector functions.

Preferred embodiments comprise optimization of binding to a human FcRn and Fc R however in alternate embodiments the IgG variants possess enhanced or reduced affinity for FcRn and Fc R from nonhuman organisms including but not limited to rodents and non human primates. IgG variants that are optimized for binding to a nonhuman FcRn may find use in experimentation. For example mouse models are available for a variety of diseases that enable testing of properties such as efficacy toxicity and pharmacokinetics for a given drug candidate. As is known in the art cancer cells can be grafted or injected into mice to mimic a human cancer a process referred to as xenografting. Testing of IgG variants that comprise IgG variants that are optimized for FcRn may provide valuable information with regard to the clearance characteristics of the protein its mechanism of clearance and the like. The IgG variants may also be optimized for enhanced functionality and or solution properties in aglycosylated form. The Fc ligands include but are not limited to FcRn Fc Rs C1q and proteins A and G and may be from any source including but not limited to human mouse rat rabbit or monkey preferably human. In an alternately preferred embodiment the IgG variants are optimized to be more stable and or more soluble than the aglycosylated form of the parent IgG variant.

IgG variants can include modifications that modulate interaction with Fc ligands other than FcRn and Fc Rs including but not limited to complement proteins and Fc receptor homologs FcRHs . FcRHs include but are not limited to FcRH1 FcRH2 FcRH3 FcRH4 FcRH5 and FcRH6 Davis et al. 2002 Immunol. Reviews 190 123 136 entirely incorporated by reference .

Preferably the Fc ligand specificity of the IgG variant will determine its therapeutic utility. The utility of a given IgG variant for therapeutic purposes will depend on the epitope or form of the target antigen and the disease or indication being treated. For most targets and indications enhanced FcRn binding may be preferable as the enhanced FcRn binding may result in an increase in serum half life. Longer serum half lives allow less frequent dosing or lower dosing of the therapeutic. This is particularly preferable when the therapeutic agent is given in response to an indication that requires repeated administration. For some targets and indications decreased FcRn affinity may be preferable. This may be particularly preferable when a variant Fc with increased clearance or decreased serum half life is desired for example in Fc polypeptides used as imaging agents or radio therapeutics.

IgG variants may be used that comprise IgG variants that provide enhanced affinity for FcRn with enhanced activating Fc Rs and or reduced affinity for inhibitory Fc Rs. For some targets and indications it may be further beneficial to utilize IgG variants that provide differential selectivity for different activating Fc Rs for example in some cases enhanced binding to Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa may be desired but not Fc RI whereas in other cases enhanced binding only to Fc RIIa may be preferred. For certain targets and indications it may be preferable to utilize IgG variants that alter FcRn binding and enhance both Fc R mediated and complement mediated effector functions whereas for other cases it may be advantageous to utilize IgG variants that enhance FcRn binding or serum half life and either Fc R mediated or complement mediated effector functions. For some targets or cancer indications it may be advantageous to reduce or ablate one or more effector functions for example by knocking out binding to C1q one or more Fc R s FcRn or one or more other Fc ligands. For other targets and indications it may be preferable to utilize IgG variants that provide enhanced binding to the inhibitory Fc RIIb yet WT level reduced or ablated binding to activating Fc Rs. This may be particularly useful for example when the goal of an IgG variant is to inhibit inflammation or auto immune disease or modulate the immune system in some way. Because auto immune diseases are generally long lasting and treatment is given in repeated dosing their treatment with Fc variants with increased half life from increased FcRn is particularly preferred.

Modification may be made to improve the IgG stability solubility function or clinical use. In a preferred embodiment the IgG variants can include modifications to reduce immunogenicity in humans. In a most preferred embodiment the immunogenicity of an IgG variant is reduced using a method described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590 entirely incorporated by reference. In alternate embodiments the IgG variants are humanized Clark 200021 397 402 entirely incorporated by reference .

The IgG variants can include modifications that reduce immunogenicity. Modifications to reduce immunogenicity can include modifications that reduce binding of processed peptides derived from the parent sequence to MHC proteins. For example amino acid modifications would be engineered such that there are no or a minimal number of immune epitopes that are predicted to bind with high affinity to any prevalent MHC alleles. Several methods of identifying MHC binding epitopes in protein sequences are known in the art and may be used to score epitopes in an IgG variant. See for example WO 98 52976 WO 02 079232 WO 00 3317 U.S. Ser. No. 09 903 378 U.S. Ser. No. 10 039 170 U.S. Ser. No. 60 222 697 U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 296 PCT WO 01 21823 and PCT WO 02 00165 Mallios 199915 432 439 Mallios 200117 942 948 Sturniolo et al. 199917 555 561 WO 98 59244 WO 02 069232 WO 02 77187 Marshall et al. 1995154 5927 5933 and Hammer et al. 1994180 2353 2358 all entirely incorporated by reference. Sequence based information can be used to determine a binding score for a given peptide MHC interaction see for example Mallios 199915 432 439 Mallios 200117 p942 948 Sturniolo et. al. 199917 555 561 all entirely incorporated by reference .

Variants of the present invention may be designed by various means. The variants as described herein may be insertions deletions substitutions other modifications or combinations of these and other changes. A particularly novel embodiment of the present invention is the design of insertions and deletions that either improve or reduce the binding of an Fc polypeptide to an Fc ligand. As disclosed herein insertions or deletions may be made that increase or decrease the affinity of the Fc polypeptide for FcRn. Insertions and deletions may be designed by rational approaches or by approaches that include the use or random components such as random or semi random library creation or screening. In an alternative embodiment substitutions are disclosed that increase or decrease the affinity of the Fc polypeptide for FcRn.

Variant Fc polypeptides may be created by substituting a variant amino acid in place of the parent amino acid at a position in the Fc polypeptide. By substituting one or more amino acids for variant amino acids in the Fc polypeptide the side chains at those positions are altered. Most useful substitutions modify the Fc properties by altering the Fc side chains. The substituted side chains may interact directly or indirectly with an Fc binding partner that is associated with an Fc function or property. The at least one substitution alters the covalent structure of one or more side chains of the parent Fc polypeptide.

Alternatively variant Fc polypeptides may be created that change the covalent structure of the backbone of the parent Fc polypeptide. The backbone atoms in proteins are the peptide nitrogen the alpha carbon the carbonyl or peptide carbon and the carbonyl oxygen. Changing the covalent structure of the backbone provides additional methods of altering the properties of the Fc polypeptides. The covalent structure of the Fc backbone may be altered by the addition of atoms into the backbone e.g. by inserting one or more amino acids or the subtraction of atoms from the backbone e.g. by deleting one or more amino acids. The covalent structure of the backbone may also be altered by changing individual atoms of the backbone to other atoms Deechongkit et al. J Am Chem. Soc. 2004. 126 51 16762 71 entirely incorporated by reference . As is known in the art and is illustrated herein insertions or deletions of amino acids in Fc polypeptides may be done by inserting or deleting the corresponding nucleotides in the DNA encoding the Fc polypeptide. Alternatively as is known in the art insertions or deletions of amino acids may be done during synthesis of Fc polypeptides.

The design of insertions or deletions of amino acids that alter the interaction of the Fc polypeptide with one or more binding partners e.g. FcgammaR s FcRn C1q may be done by considering the structure of the complex of the Fc polypeptide and its binding partner. In a less preferred embodiment the design may be done by considering the structure of the Fc polypeptide and information about the Fc region involved in binding the binding partner. This information may be obtained by mutagenesis experiments phage display experiments homology comparisons computer modeling or other means.

Preferred positions in the amino acid sequence for insertions or deletions that affect the Fc binding interactions but do not affect the overall structure stability expression or use of the Fc polypeptide are in loops that are involved in the Fc Fc binding partner interactions. To alter FcRn binding to the Fc polypeptide positions 244 257 279 284 307 317 383 390 and 428 435 are preferred loop locations for insertions or deletions numbering from EU index of Kabat et al. Burmeister et al. 1994 Nature 372 379 383 Martin et al. 2001 Mol Cell 7 867 877 all entirely incorporated by reference . To alter the Fcgamma receptor binding to the Fc polypeptide positions 229 239 266 273 294 299 and 324 331 are preferred loop locations for insertions or deletions numbering from EU index of Kabat et al. PDB code 1E4K.pdb Sondermann et al. Nature. 2000 406 267 all entirely incorporated by reference . Loops are regions of the polypeptide not involved in alpha helical or beta sheet structure. Loops positions are positions that are not in either alpha helical or beta sheet structures van Holde Johnson and Ho. Principles of Physical Biochemistry. Prentice Hall New Jersey 1998 Chapter 1 pp 2 67 entirely incorporated by reference . Loop positions are preferred because the backbone atoms are typically more flexible and less likely involved in hydrogen bonds compared to the backbone atoms of alpha helices and beta sheets. Therefore the lengthening or shortening of a loop due to an insertion or deletion of one or more amino acids is less likely to lead to large disruptive changes to the Fc polypeptide including stability expression or other problems.

Insertions and deletions may be used to alter the length of the polypeptide. For example in loop regions altering the loop length results in altered flexibility and conformational entropy of the loop. Insertions in a loop will generally increase the conformational entropy of the loop which may be defined as Boltzman s constant multiplied by the natural logarithm of the number of possible conformations van Holde Johnson and Ho. Principles of Physical Biochemistry. Prentice Hall New Jersey 1998 pp 78 entirely incorporated by reference . By inserting at least one amino acid into a polypeptide the total number of conformations available to the polypeptide increases. These additional conformations may be beneficial for forming favorable Fc Fc binding partner interactions because the Fc polypeptide may use one of the additional conformations in binding the Fc binding protein. In this case the insertion may lead to stronger Fc Fc binding partner interactions. If the additional conformations are not used in the binding interface then the insertion may lead to weaker Fc Fc binding partner interactions because the additional conformations would compete with the binding competent conformation. Similarly deletion of a polypeptide segment may also lead to either stronger or weaker Fc Fc binding partner interactions. If deletion of a segment which reduces the possible number of backbone conformations removes the binding competent conformation then the deletion may lead to weaker Fc Fc binding partner interactions. If the deletion does not remove the binding competent conformation then the deletion may lead to stronger Fc Fc binding partner interactions because the deletion may remove conformations that compete with the binding competent conformation.

Insertions and deletions may be used to alter the positions and orientations of the amino acids in the Fc polypeptide. Because insertions and deletions cause a change in the covalent structure of the backbone they necessarily cause a change in the positions of the backbone atoms. compares the backbone positions at some loop segments marked L1 to L4 in three different backbones. The reference backbone structure contains four loop segments whereas the deletion backbone lacks segment L1 and the insertion segment comprises an additional segment before ie N terminal to segment L1. Deletions and insertions cause the largest change in the backbone structure near the site of the insertion or deletion. By deleting a segment near the N terminal end of the loop e.g. segment L1 the loop shortens and the remaining segments shift their position closer to the loop N terminus. This has the effect of moving the L2 segment toward the prior location of the L1 segment and toward the loop N terminus. This change in position of the L2 segment toward the L1 segment may strengthen the binding of the Fc Fc binding partner complex and is preferred when there is prior information suggesting that the amino acid or amino acids located in L2 make favorable interactions with the Fc binding partner when located in L1. For example if L2 contains alanine and tyrosine and substitution of two L1 amino acids for alanine and tyrosine previously lead to an Fc variant with increased binding then deletion of L1 may create an Fc variant with increased affinity for the Fc binding partner.

Similarly an insertion of a polypeptide segment into an Fc polypeptide at the N terminal side of a loop causes the positions of the loop segments to be shifted toward the C terminal side of the loop. In an insertion of one or more amino acids before i.e. N terminally to segment L1 alters the backbone conformation including a shift of the L1 segment toward the C terminal end of the loop. This type of insertion is preferred when the amino acids located in segment L1 are known to make favorable interactions when located in the L2 positions as the insertion may lead to stronger Fc Fc binding partner interactions. If weaker Fc Fc binding partner interactions are desired then the insertion may be used to shift unfavorable amino acid into a new position. The inserted deleted and reference segments L1 to L4 in may be one or more than one amino acid in the Fc polypeptide.

Alternatively insertions or deletions may be used at the C terminal end of loops in a manner analogous to the insertions or deletions at the N terminal end of loops. Insertions at the loop C terminus may lead to a movement of the positions N terminal of the insertion toward the loop N terminus. Deletions at the loop C terminus may lead to a movement of the positions N terminal of the deletion toward the loop C terminus. The choice of using an insertion or deletion at the N terminal or C terminal end of the loop is based on the amino acids located in the loop the desire for increased or decreased Fc Fc binding partner affinity and the positional shift desired.

Insertions or deletions may be used in any region of an Fc polypeptide including the loops the alpha helical and the beta sheet regions. Preferred locations for insertions and deletions include loop regions which are those that are not alpha helical or beta sheet regions. Loops are preferred because they generally accept alterations in the backbone better than alpha helixes or beta sheets. The particularly preferred locations for insertions or deletions that result in stronger protein protein interactions are at the N terminal or C terminal edges of a loop. If the loop side chains are involve in the Fc Fc binding partner interactions then insertions or deletion at the edges are less likely to lead to strongly detrimental changes in the binding interactions. Deletions within the exact center of the loop are more likely to remove important residues in the Fc Fc binding partner interface and insertions within the exact center of the loop are more likely to create unfavorable interactions in the Fc Fc binding partner interface. The number of residues deleted or inserted may be determined by the size of the backbone change desired with insertions or deletions of 15 or less residues being preferred insertions or deletions of 10 or less residues being more preferred and insertions or deletions of 5 or less residues being most preferred.

Once the position and size of an Fc deletion variant is designed the entire polypeptide sequence is completely determined and the polypeptide may be constructed by methods known in the art.

Fc insertion variants however have the additional step of designing the sequence of the at least one amino acid to be inserted. Insertions of polar residues including Ser Thr Asn Gln Ala Gly His are preferred at positions expected to be exposed in the Fc polypeptide. The smaller amino acids including Ser Thr and Ala are particularly preferred as the small size is less likely to sterically interfere with the Fc Fc binding partner interactions. Ser and Thr also have the capability to hydrogen bond with atoms on the Fc binding partner.

Insertions also have the added flexibility that the inserted polypeptide may be designed to make favorable interactions with the Fc binding partner as would be desire when stronger Fc Fc binding partner binding is desired. The length of the backbone insertion may be determined by modeling the variant backbone with a simple generic sequence to be inserted. For example polyserine polyglycine or polyalanine insertions of different lengths may be constructed and modeled. Modeling may be done by a variety of methods including homology modeling based on known three dimensional structures of homologues comprising the insertion and by computer modeling including MODELLER M. A. Marti Renom et al. Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 29 291 325 2000 and ROSETTA Kuhlman et al. 2003 . Science 302 1364 8 both entirely incorporated by reference. Typically various backbone conformations are initially generated and the final backbone structure may be determined after the identities of the side chain are established. The side chains may be designed by PDA algorithms U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 188 965 6 269 312 6 403 312 6 801 861 6 804 611 6 792 356 6 950 754 and U.S. Ser. No. 09 782 004 09 927 790 10 101 499 10 666 307 10 666 311 10 218 102 all entirely incorporated by reference .

Insertions and deletions may be made to alter the binding of Fc polypeptides to FcgammaR in an analogous manner to the described method to alter FcRn binding properties. Fc domains bind to the FcgammaR at the position indicated in . Structures of the Fc FcgammaR complex including PDB codes 1T89 and 1IIS Radaev S et al. J. Biol. Chem. v276 p. 16469 16477 entirely incorporated by reference demonstrate the interacting residues and loops between the two structures. Mutagenesis results such as those found in U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 737 056 both entirely incorporated by reference all have utility in determined appropriate shifts of backbone positioning.

Insertions and deletions may be designed in any polypeptide besides Fc polypeptides by the methods described herein. For example insertions or deletions in the TNF superfamily member APRIL may be designed with the aid of its three dimensional structure PDB code 1XU1.pdb Hymowitz et al. 2005 J. Biol. Chem. 280 7218 entirely incorporated by reference . Insertions or deletions may be designed to increase APRIL binding to its receptor TACI. The loop residues preferred as insertion or deletion sites are residues Ser118 Val124 Asp164 Phe167 Pro192 Ala198 Pro221 Lys226. These loops interact with TACI in the APRIL TACI complex and mediate binding.

The IgG variants can be based on human IgG sequences and thus human IgG sequences are used as the base sequences against which other sequences are compared including but not limited to sequences from other organisms for example rodent and primate sequences. IgG variants may also comprise sequences from other immunoglobulin classes such as IgA IgE IgD IgM and the like. It is contemplated that although the IgG variants are engineered in the context of one parent IgG the variants may be engineered in or transferred to the context of another second parent IgG. This is done by determining the equivalent or corresponding residues and substitutions between the first and second IgG typically based on sequence or structural homology between the sequences of the IgGs. In order to establish homology the amino acid sequence of a first IgG outlined herein is directly compared to the sequence of a second IgG. After aligning the sequences using one or more of the homology alignment programs known in the art for example using conserved residues as between species allowing for necessary insertions and deletions in order to maintain alignment i.e. avoiding the elimination of conserved residues through arbitrary deletion and insertion the residues equivalent to particular amino acids in the primary sequence of the first IgG variant are defined. Alignment of conserved residues preferably should conserve 100 of such residues. However alignment of greater than 75 or as little as 50 of conserved residues is also adequate to define equivalent residues. Equivalent residues may also be defined by determining structural homology between a first and second IgG that is at the level of tertiary structure for IgGs whose structures have been determined. In this case equivalent residues are defined as those for which the atomic coordinates of two or more of the main chain atoms of a particular amino acid residue of the parent or precursor N on N CA on CA C on C and O on O are within 0.13 nm and preferably 0.1 nm after alignment. Alignment is achieved after the best model has been oriented and positioned to give the maximum overlap of atomic coordinates of non hydrogen protein atoms of the proteins. Regardless of how equivalent or corresponding residues are determined and regardless of the identity of the parent IgG in which the IgGs are made what is meant to be conveyed is that the IgG variants discovered by can be engineered into any second parent IgG that has significant sequence or structural homology with the IgG variant. Thus for example if a variant antibody is generated wherein the parent antibody is human IgG1 by using the methods described above or other methods for determining equivalent residues the variant antibody may be engineered in another IgG1 parent antibody that binds a different antigen a human IgG2 parent antibody a human IgA parent antibody a mouse IgG2a or IgG2b parent antibody and the like. Again as described above the context of the parent IgG variant does not affect the ability to transfer the IgG variants to other parent IgGs.

Methods for engineering producing and screening IgG variants are provided. The described methods are not meant to constrain to any particular application or theory of operation. Rather the provided methods are meant to illustrate generally that one or more IgG variants may be engineered produced and screened experimentally to obtain IgG variants with optimized effector function. A variety of methods are described for designing producing and testing antibody and protein variants in U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 296 and U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 both entirely incorporated by reference.

A variety of protein engineering methods may be used to design IgG variants with optimized effector function. In one embodiment a structure based engineering method may be used wherein available structural information is used to guide substitutions insertions or deletions. In a preferred embodiment a computational screening method may be used wherein substitutions are designed based on their energetic fitness in computational calculations. See for example U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 296 and U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 and references cited therein all entirely incorporated by reference.

An alignment of sequences may be used to guide substitutions at the identified positions. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the use of sequence information may curb the introduction of substitutions that are potentially deleterious to protein structure. The source of the sequences may vary widely and include one or more of the known databases including but not limited to the Kabat database Northwestern University Johnson Wu 200129 205 206 Johnson Wu 200028 214 218 the IMGT database IMGT the international ImMunoGeneTics Information System Lefranc et al. 199927 209 212 Ruiz et al. 2000 28 219 221 Lefranc et al. 200129 207 209 Lefranc et al. 200331 307 310 and VBASE all entirely incorporated by reference. Antibody sequence information can be obtained compiled and or generated from sequence alignments of germline sequences or sequences of naturally occurring antibodies from any organism including but not limited to mammals. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the use of sequences that are human or substantially human may further have the advantage of being less immunogenic when administered to a human. Other databases which are more general nucleic acid or protein databases i.e. not particular to antibodies include but are not limited to SwissProt GenBank Entrez and EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database. Aligned sequences can include VH VL CH and or CL sequences. There are numerous sequence based alignment programs and methods known in the art and all of these find use in the generation of sequence alignments.

Alternatively random or semi random mutagenesis methods may be used to make amino acid modifications at the desired positions. In these cases positions are chosen randomly or amino acid changes are made using simplistic rules. For example all residues may be mutated to alanine referred to as alanine scanning. Such methods may be coupled with more sophisticated engineering approaches that employ selection methods to screen higher levels of sequence diversity. As is well known in the art there are a variety of selection technologies that may be used for such approaches including for example display technologies such as phage display ribosome display cell surface display and the like as described below.

Methods for production and screening of IgG variants are well known in the art. General methods for antibody molecular biology expression purification and screening are described in Antibody Engineering edited by Duebel Kontermann Springer Verlag Heidelberg 2001 and Hayhurst Georgiou 20015 683 689 Maynard Georgiou 20002 339 76. Also see the methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 296 U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 and U.S. Ser. No. 10 822 231 and 11 124 620 all entirely incorporated by reference.

Preferred variants of the present invention include those found in . Alternatively preferred variants of the present invention include those found in . Additionally alternatively preferred variants of the present invention include those found in . These variants have shown increased binding to the Fc receptor FcRn as illustrated in the examples.

The IgG variants can be made by any method known in the art. In one embodiment the IgG variant sequences are used to create nucleic acids that encode the member sequences and that may then be cloned into host cells expressed and assayed if desired. These practices are carried out using well known procedures and a variety of methods that may find use in are described in Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 3Ed. Maniatis Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York 2001 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons both entirely incorporated by reference. The nucleic acids that encode the IgG variants may be incorporated into an expression vector in order to express the protein. Expression vectors typically include a protein operably linked that is placed in a functional relationship with control or regulatory sequences selectable markers any fusion partners and or additional elements. The IgG variants may be produced by culturing a host cell transformed with nucleic acid preferably an expression vector containing nucleic acid encoding the IgG variants under the appropriate conditions to induce or cause expression of the protein. A wide variety of appropriate host cells may be used including but not limited to mammalian cells bacteria insect cells and yeast. For example a variety of cell lines that may find use are described in the ATCC cell line catalog available from the American Type Culture Collection entirely incorporated by reference. The methods of introducing exogenous nucleic acid into host cells are well known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.

In a preferred embodiment IgG variants are purified or isolated after expression. Antibodies may be isolated or purified in a variety of ways known to those skilled in the art. Standard purification methods include chromatographic techniques electrophoretic immunological precipitation dialysis filtration concentration and chromatofocusing techniques. As is well known in the art a variety of natural proteins bind antibodies for example bacterial proteins A G and L and these proteins may find use in purification. Often purification may be enabled by a particular fusion partner. For example proteins may be purified using glutathione resin if a GST fusion is employed Niaffinity chromatography if a His tag is employed or immobilized anti flag antibody if a flag tag is used. For general guidance in suitable purification techniques see Antibody Purification Principles and Practice 3Ed. Scopes Springer Verlag NY 1994 entirely incorporated by reference.

Fc variants may be screened using a variety of methods including but not limited to those that use in vitro assays in vivo and cell based assays and selection technologies. Automation and high throughput screening technologies may be utilized in the screening procedures. Screening may employ the use of a fusion partner or label for example an immune label isotopic label or small molecule label such as a fluorescent or colorimetric dye.

In a preferred embodiment the functional and or biophysical properties of Fc variants are screened in an in vitro assay. In a preferred embodiment the protein is screened for functionality for example its ability to catalyze a reaction or its binding affinity to its target.

As is known in the art subsets of screening methods are those that select for favorable members of a library. The methods are herein referred to as selection methods and these methods find use in the present invention for screening Fc variants. When protein libraries are screened using a selection method only those members of a library that are favorable that is which meet some selection criteria are propagated isolated and or observed. A variety of selection methods are known in the art that may find use in the present invention for screening protein libraries. Other selection methods that may find use in the present invention include methods that do not rely on display such as in vivo methods. A subset of selection methods referred to as directed evolution methods are those that include the mating or breading of favorable sequences during selection sometimes with the incorporation of new mutations.

In a preferred embodiment Fc variants are screened using one or more cell based or in vivo assays. For such assays purified or unpurified proteins are typically added exogenously such that cells are exposed to individual variants or pools of variants belonging to a library. These assays are typically but not always based on the function of the Fc polypeptide that is the ability of the Fc polypeptide to bind to its target and mediate some biochemical event for example effector function ligand receptor binding inhibition apoptosis and the like. Such assays often involve monitoring the response of cells to the IgG for example cell survival cell death change in cellular morphology or transcriptional activation such as cellular expression of a natural gene or reporter gene. For example such assays may measure the ability of Fc variants to elicit ADCC ADCP or CDC. For some assays additional cells or components that is in addition to the target cells may need to be added for example example serum complement or effector cells such as peripheral blood monocytes PBMCs NK cells macrophages and the like. Such additional cells may be from any organism preferably humans mice rat rabbit and monkey. Antibodies may cause apoptosis of certain cell lines expressing the target or they may mediate attack on target cells by immune cells which have been added to the assay. Methods for monitoring cell death or viability are known in the art and include the use of dyes immunochemical cytochemical and radioactive reagents. Transcriptional activation may also serve as a method for assaying function in cell based assays. Alternatively cell based screens are performed using cells that have been transformed or transfected with nucleic acids encoding the variants. That is Fc variants are not added exogenously to the cells.

The biological properties of the IgG variants may be characterized in cell tissue and whole organism experiments. As is known in the art drugs are often tested in animals including but not limited to mice rats rabbits dogs cats pigs and monkeys in order to measure a drug s efficacy for treatment against a disease or disease model or to measure a drug s pharmacokinetics toxicity and other properties. The animals may be referred to as disease models. Therapeutics are often tested in mice including but not limited to nude mice SCID mice xenograft mice and transgenic mice including knockins and knockouts . Such experimentation may provide meaningful data for determination of the potential of the protein to be used as a therapeutic. Any organism preferably mammals may be used for testing. For example because of their genetic similarity to humans monkeys can be suitable therapeutic models and thus may be used to test the efficacy toxicity pharmacokinetics or other property of the IgGs. Tests of the in humans are ultimately required for approval as drugs and thus of course these experiments are contemplated. Thus the IgGs may be tested in humans to determine their therapeutic efficacy toxicity immunogenicity pharmacokinetics and or other clinical properties.

The IgG variants may find use in a wide range of products. In one embodiment the IgG variant is a therapeutic a diagnostic or a research reagent preferably a therapeutic. The IgG variant may find use in an antibody composition that is monoclonal or polyclonal. In a preferred embodiment the IgG variants are used to kill target cells that bear the target antigen for example cancer cells. In an alternate embodiment the IgG variants are used to block antagonize or agonize the target antigen for example for antagonizing a cytokine or cytokine receptor. In an alternately preferred embodiment the IgG variants are used to block antagonize or agonize the target antigen and kill the target cells that bear the target antigen.

The IgG variants may be used for various therapeutic purposes. In a preferred embodiment an antibody comprising the IgG variant is administered to a patient to treat an antibody related disorder. A patient for the purposes includes humans and other animals preferably mammals and most preferably humans. By antibody related disorder or antibody responsive disorder or condition or disease herein are meant a disorder that may be ameliorated by the administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an IgG variant. Antibody related disorders include but are not limited to autoimmune diseases immunological diseases infectious diseases inflammatory diseases neurological diseases and oncological and neoplastic diseases including cancer. By cancer and cancerous herein refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma including liposarcoma neuroendocrine tumors mesothelioma schwanoma meningioma adenocarcinoma melanoma and leukemia and lymphoid malignancies.

In one embodiment an IgG variant is the only therapeutically active agent administered to a patient. Alternatively the IgG variant is administered in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents including but not limited to cytotoxic agents chemotherapeutic agents cytokines growth inhibitory agents anti hormonal agents kinase inhibitors anti angiogenic agents cardioprotectants or other therapeutic agents. The IgG varariants may be administered concomitantly with one or more other therapeutic regimens. For example an IgG variant may be administered to the patient along with chemotherapy radiation therapy or both chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In one embodiment the IgG variant may be administered in conjunction with one or more antibodies which may or may not be an IgG variant. In accordance with another embodiment the IgG variant and one or more other anti cancer therapies are employed to treat cancer cells ex vivo. It is contemplated that such ex vivo treatment may be useful in bone marrow transplantation and particularly autologous bone marrow transplantation. It is of course contemplated that the IgG variants can be employed in combination with still other therapeutic techniques such as surgery.

A variety of other therapeutic agents may find use for administration with the IgG variants. In one embodiment the IgG is administered with an anti angiogenic agent. By anti angiogenic agent as used herein is meant a compound that blocks or interferes to some degree the development of blood vessels. The anti angiogenic factor may for instance be a small molecule or a protein for example an antibody Fc fusion or cytokine that binds to a growth factor or growth factor receptor involved in promoting angiogenesis. The preferred anti angiogenic factor herein is an antibody that binds to Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor VEGF . In an alternate embodiment the IgG is administered with a therapeutic agent that induces or enhances adaptive immune response for example an antibody that targets CTLA 4. In an alternate embodiment the IgG is administered with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. By tyrosine kinase inhibitor as used herein is meant a molecule that inhibits to some extent tyrosine kinase activity of a tyrosine kinase. In an alternate embodiment the IgG variants are administered with a cytokine.

Pharmaceutical compositions are contemplated wherein an IgG variant and one or more therapeutically active agents are formulated. Formulations of the IgG variants are prepared for storage by mixing the IgG having the desired degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 entirely incorporated by reference in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. The formulations to be used for in vivo administration are preferably sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes or other methods. The IgG variants and other therapeutically active agents disclosed herein may also be formulated as immunoliposomes and or entrapped in microcapsules.

The concentration of the therapeutically active IgG variant in the formulation may vary from about 0.1 to 100 by weight. In a preferred embodiment the concentration of the IgG is in the range of 0.003 to 1.0 molar. In order to treat a patient a therapeutically effective dose of the IgG variant may be administered. By therapeutically effective dose herein is meant a dose that produces the effects for which it is administered. The exact dose will depend on the purpose of the treatment and will be ascertainable by one skilled in the art using known techniques. Dosages may range from 0.01 to 100 mg kg of body weight or greater for example 0.01 0.1 1.0 10 or 50 mg kg of body weight with 1 to 10 mg kg being preferred. As is known in the art adjustments for protein degradation systemic versus localized delivery and rate of new protease synthesis as well as the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration drug interaction and the severity of the condition may be necessary and will be ascertainable with routine experimentation by those skilled in the art.

Administration of the pharmaceutical composition comprising an IgG variant preferably in the form of a sterile aqueous solution may be done in a variety of ways including but not limited to orally subcutaneously intravenously parenterally intranasally intraotically intraocularly rectally vaginally transdermally topically e.g. gels salves lotions creams etc. intraperitoneally intramuscularly intrapulmonary e.g. AERx inhalable technology commercially available from Aradigm or Inhance pulmonary delivery system commercially available from Nektar Therapeutics etc. . Therapeutic described herein may be administered with other therapeutics concomitantly i.e. the therapeutics described herein may be co administered with other therapies or therapeutics including for example small molecules other biologicals radiation therapy surgery etc.

Examples are provided below to illustrate the present invention. These examples are not meant to constrain the present invention to any particular application or theory of operation. For all positions discussed in the present invention numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat Kabat et al. 19915th Ed. United States Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda entirely incorporated by reference . Those skilled in the art of antibodies will appreciate that this convention consists of nonsequential numbering in specific regions of an immunoglobulin sequence enabling a normalized reference to conserved positions in immunoglobulin families. Accordingly the positions of any given immunoglobulin as defined by the EU index will not necessarily correspond to its sequential sequence.

Amino acid modifications were engineered in the Fc region of IgG antibodies to improve their affinity for the neonatoal Fc receptor FcRn. Variants were screened in the context of a number of different human IgG constant chains including IgG1 IgG2 and a hybrid IgG sequences that contains the CH1 and upper hinge of IgG1 and the Fc region of IgG2. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that because of the different interactions of the IgG1 and IgG2 Fc region with Fc Rs and complement these different parent Fc regions will have different Fc R and complement mediated effector function properties. Exemplary sequences of Fc variants in the context of these parent IgG constant chains are shown in .

Fc variants were engineered in the context of an antibody targeting vascular endothelial factor VEGF . The heavy and light chain variable regions VH and VL are those of a humanized version of the antibody A4.6.1 also referred to as bevacizumab Avastin which is approved for the treatment of a variety of cancers. The amino acid sequences of the VH and VL regions of this antibody are shown in .

Genes encoding the heavy and light chains of the anti VEGF antibodies were constructed in the mammalian expression vector pTT5. Human IgG1 and IgG2 constant chain genes were obtained from IMAGE clones and subcloned into the pTT5 vector. The IgG1 2 gene was constructed using PCR mutagenesis. VH and VL genes encoding the anti VEGF antibodies were synthesized commercially Blue Heron Biotechnologies Bothell Wash. and subcloned into the vectors encoding the appropriate CL IgG1 IgG2 and IgG1 2 constant chains. Amino acid modifications were constructed using site directed mutagenesis using the QuikChange site directed mutagenesis methods Stratagene La Jolla Calif. . All DNA was sequenced to confirm the fidelity of the sequences.

Plasmids containing heavy chain gene VH C 1 C 2 C 3 were co transfected with plasmid containing light chain gene VL CK into 293E cells using Ilipofectamine Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and grown in FreeStyle 293 media Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . After 5 days of growth the antibodies were purified from the culture supernatant by protein A affinity using the MabSelect resin GE Healthcare . Antibody concentrations were determined by bicinchoninic acid BCA assay Pierce .

The fidelity of the expressed variant antibodies was confirmed by demonstrating that they maintained specificity for antigen. VEGF binding was monitored using surface plasmon resonance SPR Biacore performed using a Biacore 3000 instrument. Recombinant VEGF VEGF 165 PeproTech Rocky Hill N.J. was adhered to a CM5 chip surface by coupling with N hydroxysuccinimide N ethyl N 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide NHS EDC using standard methods. WT and variant antibodies were injected as analytes and response measured in resonance units RU was acquired. The dissociation phase was too slow to measure true equilibrium constants and so relative binding was determined by measuring RU s at the end of the association phase which should be proportional to the protein concentration which is held constant in the experiment and the association rate constant. The data show that the variant anti VEGF antibodies maintain binding to antigen in contrast to the negative control anti Her2 antibody which does not bind VEGF.

Binding of variant antibodies to human FcRn was measured at pH 6.0 the pH at which it is naturally bound in endosomes. Vectors encoding beta 2 microglobulin and His tagged alpha chain genes of FcRn were constructed co transfected into 293T cells and purified using nickel chromatography. Antibody affinity for human FcRn hFcRn at pH 6.0 was measured on a Biacore 3000 instrument by coupling human FcRn to a CM5 chip surface using standard NHS EDC chemistry. WT and variant antibodies were used in the mobile phase at 25 100 nM concentration and response was measured in resonance units. Association and dissocation phases at pH 6.0 were acquired followed by an injection of pH 7.4 buffer to measure release of antibody from receptor at the higher pH. A cycle with antibody and buffer only provided baseline response which was subtracted from each sample sensorgram.

The FcRn association dissociation curves did not fit to a simple Langmuir model possibly due to the antibody and receptor multi valency or chip heterogeneity. Pseudo Ka values referred to as Ka were determined by fitting to a conformational change model with the change in refractive index RI fixed at 0 RU. These values for select variant antibodies are plotted in . The relative affinity of each variant as compared to its parent IgG was calculated according to the equation Fold WT Ka Variant Ka . The relative binding data for all Fc variants in an IgG1 Fc region are presented in and binding data for variants in antibodies with an IgG2 Fc region constant chains IgG1 and IgG1 2 are presented in . For many variants the binding experiment was repeated multiple times n for which folds were calculated with reference to the WT IgG parent within each particular binding experiment. Averaging of these data provided a mean and standard deviation as presented in .

Select variants were constructed in the context of antibodies targeting other antigens including TNF TNF CD25 TAC EGFR and IgE. provides the amino acid sequences of the VH and VL regions of antibodies targeting these antigens that were used in the invention. The WT and Fc variant anti TNF antibodies contain the variable region of the fully human antibody adalimumab Humira currently approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis RA juvenile idiopathic arthritis JIA psoriatic arthritis PsA ankylosing spondylitis AS and Crohn s disease CD . The WT and Fc variant anti CD25 antibodies are humanized versions of the antibody anti TAC Junghans et al. 1990 Cancer Research 50 1495 1502 referred to as H1.8 L1 anti TAC. The WT and Fc variant anti EGFR antibodies are humanized versions of the murine antibody C225 referred to as H4.42 L3.32 C225. Finally the WT and Fc variant anti IgE antibodies contain the variable region of the humanized antibody omalizumab Xolair which is approved for the treatment of allergic asthma.

WT and variant antibodies were constructed expressed and purified as described above. Antibodies were tested for binding to human FcRn at pH 6.0 by Biacore as described above. The relative binding data of the variant anti TNF CD25 EGFR and IgE antibodies to human FcRn are provided in . As can be seen the variants improve FcRn affinity in the context of antibodies targeting a variety of antigens.

To test the ability of select variants to improve half life in vivo pharmacokinetic experiments were performed in B6 mice that are homozygous knock outs for murine FcRn and heterozygous knock ins of human FcRn mFcRn hFcRn Petkova et al. 2006 Int Immunol 18 12 1759 69 entirely incorporated by reference herein referred to as hFcRn or hFcRn mice. A single intravenous tail vein injection of anti VEGF antibody 2 mg kg was given to groups of 4 7 female mice randomized by body weight 20 30 g range . Blood 50 ul was drawn from the orbital plexus at each time point processed to serum and stored at 80 C. until analysis. Study durations were 28 or 49 days. Animals were not harmed during these studies.

Antibody concentrations were determined using two ELISA assays. In the first two studies referred to as Study 1 and Study 2 goat anti human Fc antibody Jackson Immuno research was adhered to the plate wells were washed with PBST phosphate buffered saline with 0.05 Tween and blocked with 3 BSA in PBST. Serum or calibration standards were the added followed by PBST washing addition of europium labeled anti human IgG Perkin Elmer and further PBST washing. The time resolved fluorescence signal was collected. For Studies 3 5 serum concentration was detected using a similar ELISA but recombinant VEGF VEGF 165 PeproTech Rocky Hill N.J. was used as capture reagent and detection was carried out with biotinylated anti human kappa antibody and europium labeled streptavidin. PK parameters were determined for individual mice with a non compartmental model using WinNonLin Pharsight Inc Mountain View Calif. . Nominal times and dose were used with uniform weighing of points. The time points used lambda Z ranges were from 4 days to the end of the study although all time points were used for the faster clearing mutants P257N and P257L.

Five antibody PK studies in mFcRn hFcRn mice were carried out. shows serum concentration data for WT and variant IgG1 Study 3 and IgG2 Study 5 antibodies respectively. Fitted PK parameters from all in vivo PK studies carried out in mFcRn hFcRn mice are provided in . PK data include half life which represents the beta phase that characterizes elimination of antibody from serum Cmax which represents the maximal observed serum concentration AUC which represents the area under the concentration time curve and clearance which represents the clearance of antibody from serum. Also provided for each variant is the calculated fold improvement or reduction in half life relative to the IgG1 or IgG2 parent antibody Fold half life half life variant half life WT .

The data show that a number of the engineered Fc variant antibodies with enhanced FcRn affinity at pH 6.0 extend half life in vivo. shows a plot of the in vivo half life versus the fold FcRn binding for the IgG1 antibodies with select variants labeled. Results from repeat experiments circled in the figure indicate that data from the in vivo model are reproducible. The best single variants include 308F and 434S the best double variants include 259I 308F 308F 428L 308F 434S and 428L 434S and the best triple variant is 259I 308F 428L. There is a general correlation between affinity for FcRn and in vivo half life but it is not completely predictive. Notably variants 257L and 257N which improved FcRn binding by 3.4 and 3.5 fold respectively reduced in vivo half life by 0.6 and 0.3 respectively. The plot also highlights again the importance of the amino acid identity of substitution at a given position whereas 308F 434S provided substantial half life improvement 308F 434M was barely better than WT IgG1.

The Fc variants of the invention were also evaluated for their capacity to improve the half life of immunoadhesins also referred to as Fc fusions . Select Fc variants were engineered into the anti TNF immunoadhesion etanercept Enbrel . Etanercept is a fusion of human TNF receptor 2 TNF RID and the Fc region of human IgG1 and is clinically approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis juvenile idiopathic arthritis ankylosing spondylitis psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. An IgG2 Fc region version of this Fc fusion was also constructed and select Fc variants were constructed in this context as well. The amino acid sequences of the anti TNF immunoadhesins characterized in the invention are provided in . Genes were constructed using recursive PCR and subcloned into the pTT5 vector and Fc variants were constructed using QuikChange mutagenesis methods. Immunoadhesins were expressed in 293E cells and purified as described above.

The binding specificity of the purified immunoadhesins was confirmed by testing binding to recombinant TNF by Biacore. Immunoadhesins were captured onto an immobilized Protein A G Pierce CM5 biosensor chip Biacore generated using standard primary amine coupling. Immunoadhesins were immobilized on the Protein NG surface and recombinant TNF in serial dilutions was injected over antibody bound surface followed by a dissociation phase. After each cycle the surface was regenerated with buffer. Data were processed by zeroing time and response before the injection of receptor and by subtracting from a reference channel to account for changes due to injections. Kinetic data were fit to a 1 1 binding model Langmuir . Equilibrium association constants Ka s obtained from these fits are provided in . The results show that the variant immunoadhesins retained affinity for TNF comparable to commercial enbrel.

Variant immunoadhesins were tested for binding to human FcRn at pH 6.0 using Biacore as described above. The results indicate that similar as in the context of antibodies the variants improve binding to FcRn relative to their IgG1 and IgG2 parent immunoadhesin proteins.

The half lives of the variant immunoadhesins were tested in the mFcRn hFcRn mice as described above. 12 mice per group were injected at 2 mg kg of variant and parent IgG1 immunoadhesin. Serum concentration was detected using an ELISA similar to that described above except that goat anti human TNF RII antibody was used as capture reagent detection was carried out with biotinylated anti human kappa antibody and europium labeled streptavidin. shows serum concentration data for WT IgG1 Fc and variant Fc immunoadhesins. Fitted PK parameters as described above from the PK study are provided in . Also provided for each variant is the calculated increase in half life calculated as 100 times the half life of variant Fc fusion over that of the WT IgG1 Fc parent. The results indicate that the variants extend in vivo half life in the context of the immunoadhesin.

The PK properties of biologics in non human primates are well established to be predictive of their properties in humans. A PK study was carried out in cynomolgus monkeys in order to evaluate the capacity of the variant anti VEGF antibodies to improve serum half life in non human primates.

In preparation for a PK study in cynomolgus monkeys binding of the variant antibodies to cynomolgus cyno FcRn cFcRn at pH 6.0 was measured. cFcRn was constructed expressed and purified as described above for human FcRn. Binding of variant anti VEGF antibodies to cFcRn was measured using Biacore as described above. The data are provided in . The results show that the variants improve affinity for cyno FcRn similarly as they do for human FcRn. Dissociation at the higher pH 7.4 was also very rapid data not shown similar to as was observed for binding to human FcRn. These results are not surprising given the high sequence homology of the human and cyno receptors FcRn alpha chain 96 beta 2 microglobulin 91 .

The PK of the variants were studied in vivo in non human primates. Male cynomolgus monkeys also called crab eating Macaque weighing 2.3 5.1 kg were randomized by weight and divided into 5 groups with 3 monkeys per group. The monkeys were given a single 1 hour peripheral vein infusion of 4 mg kg antibody. Blood samples 1 ml were drawn from a separate vein from 5 minutes to 90 days after completion of the infusion processed to serum and stored at 70 C. Animals were not harmed during these studies.

Antibody concentrations were determined using the VEGF capture method as described above. PK parameters were determined by fitting the concentrations versus time to a non compartmental model as was done in the mouse PK studies. However time points from day 10 to day 90 were used for PK parameter determinations. The PK results are plotted in and the fitted parameters are provided in . The results show that the variants enhanced the in vivo half life of antibody up to 3.2 fold. In the best case the 428L 434S variant half life was extended from 9.7 days to 31.1 days. The PK results obtained in cynomolgus monkeys are consistent with those obtained in mFcR hFcR mice validating the hFcRn mouse model as a system for assessing the in vivo PK properties of the variants and supporting the conclusions from those studies.

Whereas particular embodiments of the invention have been described above for purposes of illustration it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that numerous variations of the details may be made without departing from the invention as described in the appended claims. All references cited herein are incorporated in their entirety.

