---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring usage patterns of a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus and methods for monitoring usage patterns of a wireless device may include a usage monitoring and reporting module operable to monitor and log usage on a wireless device based on a received usage configuration. Further, based on the usage configuration, the wireless device may forward the log to another device operable to analyze the log and generate a usage pattern report viewable by an authorized user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08532610&OS=08532610&RS=08532610
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08532610
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100914
---
The present Application for Patent is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 11 374 888 entitled Method and Apparatus for Monitoring Usage Patterns of a Wireless Device filed Mar. 13 2006 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 660 965 entitled Method and Apparatus for Providing Usage Pattern for a Wireless Device filed Mar. 14 2005 both of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and both are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communication devices and computer networks. More particularly the described embodiments relate to the collecting usage statistics on a wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. These smart wireless devices such as cellular telephones have application programming interfaces APIs installed onto their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone. The API sits between the wireless device system software and the software application making the cellular telephone functionality available to the application without requiring the software developer to have the specific cellular telephone system source code.

As the functionality and the bandwidth requirement of wireless devices has grown far beyond the requirements of a cellular telephone the need to manage the bandwidth maintenance and service of the wireless network has become critical to maintaining quality of service to the user and to maintain and increase the profitability of the network carrier. Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide apparatus and methods for providing consumer usage pattern reports for a wireless device.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operable to monitor and log wireless device usage data that may be used to generate usage pattern reports relating to the occurrence of predetermined activities on the wireless device including one or more of what activities occur when the activities occur as well as the frequency and duration of the activities. For example the usage pattern reports may identify trends in where users make their calls the time and length of calls websites accessed and content and software downloaded and utilized on the device. The usage pattern report may be used for example to make informed decisions regarding products and services to provide to the device and or network design relating to the usage of the device.

In one aspect a method of determining a usage pattern of a wireless device on a wireless network may include obtaining on a wireless device a configuration that comprises a usage parameter and a reporting parameter wherein the usage parameter identifies wireless device usage data to be monitored. The method further includes logging the identified usage data into a log based upon the usage parameter. Additionally the method includes forwarding based upon the reporting parameter the usage log to another device to analyze usage patterns of the wireless device. In a related aspect a machine readable medium may comprise instruction which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above stated operations.

In a further aspect a wireless device may comprise means for obtaining on a wireless device a configuration that comprises a usage parameter and a reporting parameter wherein the usage parameter identifies wireless device usage data to be monitored. Additionally the wireless device may include means for logging usage data into a log based upon the usage parameter. Also the wireless device may include means for forwarding based upon the reporting parameter the usage log to another device to analyze usage patterns of the wireless device.

In another aspect a wireless device may comprise a memory and a usage monitoring and reporting module resident in the memory. The usage monitoring and reporting module may include a usage configuration and monitoring logic operable to monitor wireless device usage based upon the usage configuration. Additionally the usage monitoring and reporting module may include log generating logic operable to generate a memory resident usage log comprising usage data based upon the usage configuration. Further the usage monitoring and reporting module may include reporting logic operable to transfer based on the usage configuration the usage log to another device to analyze wireless device usage patterns.

In yet another aspect a method of monitoring usage patterns of a wireless device may comprise generating a usage configuration executable to initiate monitoring logging and reporting of usage data on a wireless device. The usage configuration may identify a usage parameter and a reporting parameter. The method may further include forwarding the usage configuration for receipt by the wireless device and receiving a generated usage log from the wireless device based on the usage configuration. Additionally the method may include generating a usage pattern report based on the received usage log. In a related aspect a machine readable medium may comprise instruction which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above stated operations.

In a further aspect an apparatus may comprise a means for generating a usage configuration executable to initiate monitoring logging and reporting of usage data on a wireless device. The usage configuration may identify a usage parameter and a reporting parameter. The apparatus may further include a means for forwarding the usage configuration for receipt by the wireless device and a means for receiving a generated usage log from the wireless device based on the usage configuration. Additionally the apparatus may include a means for generating a usage pattern report based on the received usage log.

In still another aspect an apparatus for managing the monitoring of a usage of a wireless device comprises a configuration generator operable to generate and transmit a usage configuration for receipt by a wireless device. The usage configuration may identify a usage parameter to monitor and a reporting parameter. Further the apparatus may include an information repository operable to receive and store a log where the log comprises wireless device usage information based on the usage configuration. Additionally the apparatus may include a usage pattern control module comprising an analyzer operable to generate a usage pattern report based on the log.

In still other aspects a machine readable medium comprises a first and second set of executable instructions. The first set of executable instructions when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations comprising generating a usage configuration executable to initiate monitoring logging and reporting of usage data on a wireless device the usage configuration identifying a usage parameter and a reporting parameter. Further the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to forward the usage configuration for receipt by the wireless device. Additionally the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to receive a generated usage log from the wireless device based on the usage configuration. Additionally the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to generate a usage pattern report based on the received usage log. The second set of executable instructions when executed by the wireless device cause the wireless device to perform operations comprising obtaining the usage configuration logging the usage data into a log based upon the usage parameter and forwarding based upon the reporting parameter the usage log to the first machine to analyze usage patterns of the wireless device.

Generally system may include a wireless device in communication with a usage pattern manager server which provides device control functionality via a wireless network . Further usage pattern manager server may be in communication with a user workstation operated by an authorized user such as a authorized user who is provided access to the functionality of usage pattern manager server via a wired connection or through wireless network and who may via user workstation communicate with wireless device .

Usage pattern data comprises any information relating to activity on the wireless device such as what activity is occurring when the activity occurs and how often the activity occurs i.e. the frequency and or how long the activity occurs i.e. the duration. The activity may comprise at least one of a call related activity a messaging related activity a browser related activity and a software application related activity. For example usage pattern data may track information relating to voice calls video calls text messages the uploading and downloading of content and the execution and usage of the content and or applications. Usage pattern data may include for example a predetermined time based parameter associated with the monitored and or collected information such as a time of day and or a day and or a date. Further usage pattern data may include for example a measure of how often the activity occurs such as a count over a predetermined time period a length of each given activity etc. For instance usage pattern data may include but are not limited to monitoring and logging time of day calls are being made the average length of calls a location from where calls are made received for example global positioning GPS fix and cell site info such as pseudo noise PN offset system identification SID network identification NID and base station identification BSID which websites are being accessed when and how often and what software and or applets are being downloaded and executed when and how often. The usage pattern monitoring parameters are user configurable and may be downloaded from usage pattern manager server . Thus the usage pattern data are collected and analyzed in an attempt to provide insight into a usage pattern i.e. an occurrence of a predetermined activity time based data associated with the occurrence a duration of the predetermined activity a frequency of the occurrence and a geographic location associated with the occurrence relating to a device a device user and or a given activity.

The device may include any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Referring to wireless device may include computer platform operable to transmit data i.e. usage pattern data logs across wireless network and receive and execute software applications and configurations i.e. usage pattern monitoring module and usage pattern usage configuration .

Wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools and data relays.

Wireless device may also include input mechanism and output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . Input mechanism is operable to generate an input into wireless device and may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display and a voice recognition module. Output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker and a haptic feedback mechanism for example for relaying information to the user of the wireless device .

Computer platform may also include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Additionally memory may be operable to store original equipment manufacturer supplied instructions as well as third party client applications downloaded via network or loaded via a personal computer PC .

Further computer platform may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine is operable to execute an application programming interface API layer that may interface with any resident programs such as usage monitoring and reporting module stored in memory . In one aspect API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Another example includes the Java 2 Micro Edition J2ME APIs such as those supported by the Symbian OS operating system software. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware software firmware executable instructions data and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface UI sleep limited services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc.

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the resident usage pattern monitoring module . Further at least a portion of information relating to usage data gathered and logged in log may be available from one or some combination of these subsystems .

For example in some aspects call time and length records can be generated using timestamps of when calls begin and end and can be retrieved from over the air OTA messages retrieved through the diagnostic subsystem and its BREW extension. The timestamp information may be used to calculate the time and length of calls. Furthermore based upon parameters set in usage configuration usage data may be gathered for at least one of incoming and outgoing calls. It should be noted however that call related information may be gathered from one or more of a plurality of processing subsystems for example from the Diagnostic Call Manager System Determination and or User Interface subsystems of a cellular telephone.

Furthermore for example in some aspects the usage monitoring and reporting module may use OTA messages to determine when the wireless device is in a call. Once the wireless device is in a call the location of the wireless device may be determined and logged for example using information retrieved from processing engine and or one or more processing subsystems . For example location information may be included in processing subsystems such as a global positioning system GPS system monitor and a diagnostic system monitor. Such location determining information may include a GPS fix such as longitude and latitude information and cell site and or network information such as pseudo noise PN offset network identification NID system identification SID and base station identification BSID . In some aspects the detection of a call may trigger the retrieval of the location information which may be a value currently resident in one or more processing subsystems or which may be a value that is updated based on the triggering call event. In some aspects wireless device may include modules for determining location information these modules including one or more of a Global Positioning System GPS an Assisted GPS A GPS system such as the QPoint Positioning Software and gpsOne hybrid Assisted GPS wireless location technology available from Qualcomm Inc. San Diego Calif. and Localization Based Systems LBS such as Cell ID Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD and Observed Timed Difference of Arrival OTDOA .

In addition the usage monitoring and reporting module may be operable to determine when a new software application and or applet has been downloaded for instance based on status changes in system components of wireless device . For example when a software application and or applet is downloaded the total free electronic file storage EFS or any media storage may decrease. Changes in the EFS or other media may be detected through the EFS or other media system monitor and its BREW extension. Furthermore at the time a software application and or applet is downloaded the application applet may be added to the application applet list in the UI subsystem and usage monitoring and reporting module may retrieve the application applet list through the UI system monitor and its BREW extension. The usage monitoring and reporting module is operable to detect either of these changes and may at that time retrieve and log the application applet name. In other examples the usage monitoring and reporting module may be in communication with a dynamic software manager module on the device and or with one or any combination of application related subsystems which provide information on the addition deletion and usage what when frequency duration of software on the device.

Furthermore in another example the usage monitoring and reporting module may be operable to log accessed websites based upon the IP packets comprising the messages and data sent over the TCP IP network. A destination IP address is associated with every IP packet and transmitted IP packets may be retrieved through the data services system monitor and its BREW extension and this IP address may then be logged as part of the usage log . In a further example the usage monitoring and reporting module may be operable to communicate with predetermined APIs utilized by a browser application when exchanging data packets in order to gather and log web based activity. Additionally in yet another example the usage monitoring and reporting module may be operable to gather web based activity information from data service logs such as may be stored within a processing subsystem such as a Diagnostic subsystem.

It should be noted that all of the above examples are provided for illustrative purposes only and that the usage monitoring and reporting module may be operable to communicate with any functional component associated with the wireless device in order to collect and log the configured usage data.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware software executable instructions data and combinations thereof operable to enable communications among the various components of the wireless device and wireless network . Communications module may comprise any component port interface that may include any point of entry into and or any point of exit from wireless device. As such communications module may include interface components for hardwired communications and for wireless communications. Further communications module may include any air interface components such as a signal transmitter a signal receiver a signal modulator and or a signal demodulator along with the associated electronics.

Based on configuration monitoring logic and reporting logic usage monitoring and reporting module is operable to monitor usage of the wireless device and report the usage to the usage pattern manager server module . The usage monitoring and reporting module may be loaded into memory by various mechanisms including but not limited to being downloaded from any computer device connected to wireless network and being statically loaded on the wireless device prior to delivery to the end user such as at the time of manufacture. Computer devices from which usage monitoring and reporting module may be downloaded include usage pattern manager server module and user workstation .

In one aspect configuration may include usage parameters which identify data to log relating to a predetermined activity occurring on the wireless device . The collected usage data are stored by log generator in usage log . As noted above the collected usage data comprises any information relating to activity on the wireless device such as what activity is occurring when the activity occurs how often the activity occurs i.e. the frequency and or how long the activity occurs i.e. the duration. Additionally the usage log may include a record of the given configuration ID that relates to the given usage parameters and or reporting parameters associated with the collected usage data .

As such in some aspects configuration may comprise reporting parameters operable to configure usage monitoring and reporting module to selectively transmit log to usage pattern manager server module across wireless network . The timing of log transmission is non limiting and may be transmitted at a predetermined time a predetermined interval a predetermined schedule and on the occurrence of predetermined events such as upon establishing a communication channel with communications network and upon power up and upon some threshold setting. Further reporting parameters may determine whom to allow access to log for example to access memory and retrieve log . Such authorized users may include a specific remote device such as the usage pattern manager server and user workstation . In addition reporting parameters may include a parameter operable to control the deletion the accumulated logs . For example log may be deleted automatically upon uploading to a usage pattern manager server upon reaching a certain memory size and upon a control command received from the usage pattern manager server and user workstation .

In one aspect log is transmitted over an open communication connection between the wireless device and the wireless network piggybacking on an ongoing voice or data call across an open connection. Alternatively in a cellular network configuration the log may be transmitted to usage pattern control module through short message service SMS . Furthermore as noted above another aspect of the usage pattern manager server module may pull the log from the wireless device across the network on a scheduled or ad hoc basis.

Usage monitoring and reporting module further includes wireless device control module operable to generate detect a control command such as an acknowledgement message in response to a command from remote server and user workstation . Such an acknowledgment message may be transmitted in response to a bootstrap command to download configuration and or upload usage log to remote device . Upon receipt of a message the monitoring logic and or wireless device control module is operable to parse the message and determine the requested command.

In some aspects data transmission between the wireless device and remote devices i.e. remote server and user workstation may be transmitted over a limited access communications channel through wireless network . The communication channel may be set up based upon a limited service configuration and may be used for transmitting usage log to remote server or for receiving control commands and or downloading at least portions of usage monitoring and reporting module including usage configuration to wireless device . The limited access communications channel is generally not available to the end user and may be configured based on limited service setting that identifies allowable types of communications and the associated communication channels that may be utilized. Limited service configuration may be downloaded over wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Referring back to usage pattern manager server may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device further comprising processor assembly . Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with usage pattern manager server that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and usage pattern manager server . Usage pattern manager server or plurality of servers may via communications module send software agents or applications such as any portion of usage pattern monitoring module including usage configuration to wireless device across wireless network such that the wireless device returns information from its resident applications and subsystems . Usage pattern control module may further include software hardware data and generally any executable instructions operable to manage the collection analysis and reporting of usage logs from wireless device .

Further usage pattern control module may include an information repository for storing logs received from wireless device . Information repository may include any type of memory or storage device.

Additionally usage pattern control module may further comprise analyzer for deriving wireless device usage patterns from the collected usage data in usage logs . Analyzer may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instruction data and analysis logic such as decision making routines statistical programs and combinations thereof for analyzing and interpreting logs and generating a usage pattern report . Report or portions thereof may be transmitted to any predetermined entity such as via e mail or may be made viewable locally or remotely such as to an authorized user . Based upon review of report and or based upon a comparison of reports taken over time an authorized user or other report recipient may observe and or determine device usage trends that may be useful in determining products and services to offer to the wireless device and or to determine changes in the associated network to better suit the observed usage patterns. In another aspect since the collected usage pattern information may include the wireless device type such as based on the configuration ID the analyzer may develop usage pattern reports based on usage data collected from a plurality of the same wireless device types and or reports that compare usage patterns between wireless device types. Additionally usage information may be accumulated from a plurality of network service providers and reports which may anonymous may be generated comparing the usage pattern of devices associated with different network service providers.

Further usage pattern control module may include configuration generator module which is executable to generate usage configuration under control of an authorized user such as marketing personnel for providers of components content and or services to the wireless device and as previously disclosed download all or a portion of usage pattern monitoring module including configuration to wireless device . Additionally usage pattern control module may pull usage log based on commands from an authorized user upon a request from usage pattern control logic or the log may be pushed from the wireless device .

Referring to usage pattern control module may include configuration generator module that includes hardware software firmware executable instructions data and or any other associated logic that allows the configuration generator module to generate usage configuration . In one aspect configuration generator module may be operable to execute configuration logic that assembles the various components of a given usage configuration based on selections from a number of parameters. For example different models of wireless devices may provide different capabilities. Accordingly parameters that make up usage configuration may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device and or the network service provider. As such configuration logic may provide a user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of wireless device types models and a plurality of network service providers in order to generate an appropriate menu from which to select the parameters of usage configuration .

The plurality of usage data type parameters enables an operator of the system such as authorized user to configure the usage pattern monitoring module to monitor log and report out any predetermined number of a plurality of types of usage data relating to any predetermined activity occurring on the device when it occurs for how long and how frequently.

Furthermore one or more reporting parameters may be selected specifying when usage log is to be uploaded to remote server . Such a parameter may be selected from a plurality of reporting parameters and may include upon the occurrence of a predetermined event such as daily at a predetermined time upon storing a predetermined number of entries and or a predetermined amount of memory used and or upon power up of the wireless device and in response to a request such as upon command by a remote device such remote server and or user workstation .

In addition one aspect of configuration logic may include plurality of control command parameters operable to control access to the usage pattern monitoring module and the reported logs. When operative such a parameter may allow an authorized user to initiate an upload of usage logs while preventing the same user from downloading a new configuration .

Furthermore rather than selecting the various parameters individually configuration logic may provide the user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined usage configurations which include predetermined groupings of the above noted parameters that comprise authorization configuration .

Further in one aspect the selected one of the plurality of wireless device types models and the selected one of the plurality of network service providers may be correlated to one or more of the plurality of usage data type parameters . For example for an XYZ brand of wireless device operating on ABC wireless service provider configuration logic may be able to determine which usage monitoring collecting and reporting capabilities the wireless device should have installed and thus may generate usage configuration that includes the appropriate set of corresponding parameters.

Once the specific parameters of a given configuration are determined then configuration logic may assign unique configuration ID to the given configuration and may store this configuration in a library for later recall such as among plurality of predetermined authorization configurations . Further configuration logic and or another component of usage pattern control module may be operable to transmit usage configuration to one or more wireless devices to initiate the monitoring and logging of calls on that device.

Referring to the usage pattern control module may comprise a device control module operable by execution of control logic to either execute control command on wireless device or transmit control command to wireless device . In one aspect for example control command may contain user identification ID and control activity . User ID may be some manner of identifying the originator of control command i.e. authorized user . For example user ID may be a name a number a digital signature a hash or any other type of data or value that may be associated with a party. Further user ID may not be explicitly contained in the control command but rather may be derived from the origin of control command .

Control activity may be an operation to be performed on wireless device by usage pattern monitoring module through executing control command . As mentioned above these operations may include downloading at least portions of usage pattern monitoring module initiating the uploading of logs and the deleting logs . Before executing or forwarding the control command device control module may execute permission logic to verify the sender s intent to perform the action as well as to determine the authority of the user issuing control command . For example verification may be requested by wireless device prior to uploading usage log to or downloading usage configuration from remote server .

To determine whether a user has authorization to issue control command permission logic may parse user ID and control activity from control command and utilize a database of a plurality of user IDs correlated with a plurality of control permissions and correlated with a plurality of wireless device identifications IDs . Thus based upon whether verification is received and or whether proper authorization is found device control module generates a permission decision which determines whether or not to execute generated control command .

Control permissions may identify one or more authorized control activities for a given user ID and or wireless device IDs . For instance certain users may be restricted to certain control activities or to being able to control certain wireless devices. It should be rioted however that the plurality of user IDs the plurality of control permissions and the plurality of wireless device identifications IDs may be correlated in any manner. For example control command may contain a user ID of authorized user and a control activity of upload current log for a particular one of the plurality of wireless device identifications . Permission logic searches the database of control permissions and user IDs to determine if the user has the permission to disable executable instructions on the given wireless device .

The actual location of the disclosed components of the usage pattern control module is non limiting and may be physically located on a server or other device connected to wireless network .

In one aspect of system authorized user staffing user workstation may be interested in how the usage pattern of the wireless device affects network products and or service. In this case for example system may allow for the analysis of cell site operations and planning of future cell site development based upon a usage pattern report generated by remote server . In another aspect of system authorized user may include a marketing representative of an equipment maker and or an entity that supplies a product and or service to the wireless device . In this scenario report provides details of the usage patterns of all aspects of the wireless device including call and messaging habits and content and software consumption. Based on this information content and service providers may tailor their available offerings to the wireless device . Report may be transmitted such as via e mail to the user workstation or the report may be made available for viewing on the remote server without requiring the report to be transmitted to the user workstation .

Further in one aspect authorized user may download usage pattern monitoring module or parts thereof to one or multiple wireless devices directly from the user workstation to the wireless device . In other aspects user workstation may be a slave to remote server requiring server to validate the user and to manage connectivity to the wireless devices .

Referring to user workstation may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer terminal or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device operable to communicate with both wireless device and remote server . In one aspect user workstation may comprise processing engine and communications module . In other aspects user workstation may reside on any network device of wireless network such as on usage pattern manager server another server connected to the network or even on a wireless device .

User workstation may comprise an input mechanism and an output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . The input mechanism and the output mechanism may be similar to their respective counterparts on wireless device and permits an authorized user to interface with the user workstation and via the workstation with the usage pattern manager server and ultimately with the wireless device . The workstation computer platform may further comprise a memory for storing applications and data files a processing engine and a communications module operable to transmit and receive messages and data between the workstation the remote server wireless device as well as any network component on wireless network .

Memory may comprise a workstation control module executed by processing engine . As the number of user workstations and the number of authorized users are non limiting user identification ID parameter may be entered into memory by authorized user and may be operable to identify the user of a particular workstation to network components including remote server and wireless device .

The workstation control module may further include authorization logic operable in conjunction with Graphic User Interface GUI logic input mechanism and output mechanism to guide the user through any analysis and command activity selection and transmission. The GUI logic may control for example e mail communication report presentation as well providing a menu for selecting and transmitting any control command to usage pattern control module and wireless device . Further the workstation control module may provide access to and or may communicate with wireless device product and or service providers and or network service providers to provide the collected and analyzed usage pattern information for one or more wireless devices.

Wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network as embodied in a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network such as the MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to an aspect of a cellular wireless system comprises at least one wireless device and a cellular telephone wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Cellular telephone system is merely exemplary and may include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate packets including voice and data over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

According to system usage pattern manager server may communicate over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with data repository for storing data logs gathered from wireless devices . Further a data management server may be in communication with usage pattern manager server to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Usage pattern manager server data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system along with any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services.

Usage pattern manager server and or data management server may communicate with carrier network through data links and such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless device by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a method for providing consumer usage pattern reports for a wireless device may initiate at step with an authorized user configuring at least a portion of usage pattern monitoring module for subsequent downloading to a single or a selection of wireless devices .

In some aspects the usage pattern monitoring module may be absent from the wireless device and may be pushed by a usage pattern control module to the wireless device or pulled from a usage pattern control module by the wireless device across a wireless network to guarantee that the wireless device has the latest software version. In another alternative the pushing or pulling of the usage pattern monitoring module to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event.

In other aspects although a given wireless device may already have usage pattern monitoring module already in memory it may not however have an up to date usage configuration . Generating and forwarding usage configuration may include accessing usage pattern control module on remote server and executing configuration generator module . As previously disclosed the generated usage configuration may be forwarded to multiple wireless devices under direction of the authorized user .

Configuration generator module may utilize configuration logic to determine and or customize the various parameters comprising usage configuration and may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device the actual network service provider and the usage types to be monitored and logged.

Upon command of authorized user usage pattern control logic may at step send a bootstrap command to the usage pattern monitoring module resident in memory of a selected wireless device. The bootstrap command may be sent over a limited communications channel via SMS or other over the air methods.

At step the wireless device control module may parse the bootstrap command and optionally verify and or authenticate the received message prior to execution. For example wireless device control module may execute the command immediately or wireless device control module may query the source of control command to verify the control command before executing it. In another example the device control module may utilize permission logic to check user ID and or control activity associated with control command against a permissions database to determine an authorization for the control command thereby formulating permission decision . In yet another alternative device control module may request remote Server to operate device control module to verify and or authorize control command .

Based upon successful verification or authentication of the bootstrap command the usage monitoring and reporting module may at step may establish a connection such as an HTTP connection with remote server over wireless network .

At step the usage monitoring and reporting module may initiate a download of usage configuration from the remote server . In another aspect authorization configuration may be forwarded through a static or serial connection to wireless device or may be preloaded on wireless device during the manufacture of the wireless device .

As previously disclosed configuration may comprise usage parameters operable to control which calls are monitored and logged in usage log reporting parameters operable to control at what times usage log is uploaded to remote server and access parameters to determine what access to wireless device is provided to remote devices.

After a successful download of usage configuration a control command comprising an acknowledgment may be transmitted to the remote server at step to indicate successful transmission of the configuration .

At step the monitoring logic and reporting logic may run as background processes monitoring and logging wireless device usage based upon the parsed parameters of usage configuration .

At step based upon reporting parameters reporting logic may establish via communications module and limited service configuration an upload mechanism with remote server . Such an uploading mechanism may include a HTTP HTTPS an FTP or other data transfer protocol.

In other aspects at step usage log may be transferred from the wireless device using any communication means or connection to which the wireless device has access.

At step the remote server sends an acknowledgment message to the wireless device indicating successful upload of the usage log . In another aspect log may be received whole or in pieces and assembled by usage pattern control module . In one aspect usage pattern control module may receive log over wireless network whereas another aspect may have the usage pattern control module receive log through a static or serial connection to the wireless device or from some other computer device or storage media in communication with usage pattern manager server and wireless device .

At step analyzer report generator may process and analyze the collected log information and at step generate consumer usage pattern report based upon that analysis.

At step the usage pattern manager server module may provide access to and or transmit the report any predetermined party such as authorized user or even a party not directly affiliated with system for further analysis and action. Further report may be generated and made viewable transmitted on a configurable basis such a daily weekly monthly etc. Report may include any form of output that represents analysis of log and other information contained in the information repository as well as any other associated information such as proposed network architectures projected operating statistics etc.

Although usage pattern control module may generate report module and its corresponding components may be operable to present a ready view of usage data related information collected from the wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example usage pattern control module may present usage related information on a monitor or display device and or may transmit this information such as via electronic mail to another computer device for further analysis or review through such mechanisms as through HTTP HTTPS FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

In another aspect the system includes the distribution of the functionality described herein. For example this aspect may include the distribution of a machine readable medium comprising a first and second set of executable instructions. The first set of executable instructions when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations comprising generating a usage configuration executable to initiate monitoring logging and reporting of usage data on a wireless device the usage configuration identifying a usage parameter and a reporting parameter. Further the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to forward the usage configuration for receipt by the wireless device. Additionally the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to receive a generated usage log from the wireless device based on the usage configuration. Additionally the first set of instructions when executed by the machine cause the machine to generate a usage pattern report based on the received usage log. The second set of executable instructions when executed by the wireless device cause the wireless device to perform operations comprising obtaining the usage configuration logging the usage data into a log based upon the usage parameter and forwarding based upon the reporting parameter the usage log to the first machine to analyze usage patterns of the wireless device.

Thus the described aspects allow for the collection and reporting of predetermined the usage patterns of a wireless device. Based on those reports improved products and services may be marketed to the wireless device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

