---

title: Flexible end-point compliance and strong authentication for distributed hybrid enterprises
abstract: Systems, methods and apparatus for accessing at least one resource hosted by at least one server of a cloud service provider. In some embodiments, a client computer sends authentication information associated with a user of the client computer and a statement of health regarding the client computer to an access control gateway deployed in an enterprise's managed network. The access control gateway authenticates the user and determines whether the user is authorized to access the at least one resource hosted in the cloud. If the user authentication and authorization succeeds, the access control gateway requests a security token from a security token service trusted by an access control component in the cloud and forwards the security token to the client computer. The client computer sends the security token to the access component in the cloud to access the at least one resource from the at least one server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08997196&OS=08997196&RS=08997196
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08997196
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100614
---
Cloud computing is an increasingly popular paradigm in which computing resources such as software hardware and data storage are provided as services to remote computers via one or more networks. These resources can be shared among multiple entities and can be accessed on demand by each entity. In a typical commercial arrangement the physical infrastructure e.g. servers storage systems communication infrastructure etc. supporting the resources is owned and or operated by a cloud computing provider which delivers the resources as services to a customer over the Internet according to some agreed upon level of service and method of billing. This paradigm is attractive to many enterprises because it provides ready access to computation and storage capacities with low upfront capital expenditure. Even for larger enterprises with flexible capital budgets cloud computing can be a cost effective option for meeting demand spikes.

As an enterprise migrates more of its data and or applications to a cloud e.g. to be hosted on a cloud computing provider s servers reachable via the Internet new security challenges arise. For instance the enterprise may wish to limit access to the resources hosted on cloud servers to authorized users only preferably according to the same access control policies implemented within the enterprise s own managed network.

When an employee of the enterprise e.g. the user wishes to access an enterprise resource e.g. checking his email running a business application retrieving a document from a corporate database etc. he may be prompted to undergo an authentication procedure using his computer e.g. the client computer to prove that he is who he purports to be. The authentication procedure may be more or less stringent depending on the enterprise s security requirements. For example if the user is attempting to access a service provided by a server within the enterprise network e.g. one of the servers A B . . . from a connection point outside the enterprise network he may be prompted to identify himself e.g. by providing his username to an enterprise authentication server and provide one or more user credentials e.g. a password that can be used by the authentication server to verify his identity. The authentication server may further determine whether the user is authorized to access the requested service for example according to one or more enterprise access policies and the user s role within the enterprise s organizational hierarchy.

Additionally if the user wishes to connect to the enterprise network using the client computer he may be prompted to undergo an endpoint compliance inspection procedure. For example the user may be prompted to provide a statement of health regarding the client computer to a health policy server not shown . Based on the statement of health the health policy server may verify whether one or more protective components are installed on the client computer and if so whether they are properly configured and operational. For example the health policy server may check whether one or more patches have been installed to remedy a vulnerability in an operating system component. As another example the health policy server may check whether a protective software tool such as a personal firewall or an anti virus program has been installed and configured with appropriate operating parameters.

If the user is attempting to access a service hosted in the cloud he may be prompted to undergo an authentication procedure with a cloud authentication server which may duplicate some or all of the access control functionalities of the enterprise authentication server . For instance the cloud authentication server may duplicate the enterprise s identity management and access policy infrastructure so that it can make decisions in the same manner as the enterprise authentication server .

Systems methods and apparatus are provided for controlling access to resources hosted in a cloud without duplicating an enterprise s identity management and access policy infrastructure to the cloud. In some embodiments the cloud facility delegates user authentication and or authorization tasks to a access gateway deployed in a network managed by the enterprise. The access gateway may have access to the enterprise s internal identity management and access policy infrastructure and may carry out an access control protocol with a user requesting access to a resource hosted in the cloud. The access gateway s access control decisions may be encapsulated in a security token generated by a security token service trusted by an access control component at the cloud facility. The user may submit this token to the access control component in the cloud as evidence that he is authorized to access the requested resource. If the access control component successfully verifies the security token the user is granted access to the resource.

Various techniques may be employed by the access gateway to authenticate and or authorize a user. For instance the access gateway may prompt a user to undergo a multi factor authentication procedure by which the user proves his identity to the access gateway based on at least two independent factors. As another example the access gateway may apply one or more enterprise access control policies to the user s identity and the requested resource to determine whether the user s access request should be granted or denied. As yet another example the access gateway may prompt the user to submit his computer to a health inspection.

In some embodiments a method is provided for use by a client computer to access at least one resource hosted by at least one server controlled by at least one service provider. The method comprises sending to an access control gateway controlled by at least one enterprise different from the at least one service provider authentication information associated with a user of the client computer and a statement of health regarding the client computer receiving a security token from the access control gateway sending to the at least one server hosting the at least one resource the security token received from the access control gateway and accessing the at least one resource from the at least one server.

In some further embodiments a client computer is provided for accessing at least one resource hosted by at least one server controlled by at least one service provider. The client computer comprises at least one processor programmed to send to an access control gateway controlled by at least one enterprise different from the at least one service provider access request information purporting to indicate that the client computer is authorized to access the at least one resource receive a security token from the access control gateway send to the at least one server hosting the at least one resource the security token received from the access control gateway and access the at least one resource from the at least one server.

In yet some further embodiments at least one non transitory computer readable medium is provided having encoded thereon instructions that when executed by at least one processor perform a method for use by an access gateway controlled by at least one enterprise. The method comprises receiving from a client computer access request information purporting to indicate that the client computer is authorized to access at least one resource hosted by at least one server controlled by at least one service provider different from the at least one enterprise determining based at least in part on the access request information whether the client computer is authorized to access the at least one resource if it is determined that the client computer is authorized to access the at least one resource requesting a security token from a security token service trusted by the at least one server and sending the security token to the client computer to be presented to the at least one server to obtain access to the at least one resource.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated a number of disadvantages of existing solutions for controlling access to resources hosted in a cloud. For example the conventional approach of duplicating the enterprise s identity management and access policy infrastructure in a cloud may be costly especially for an enterprise having a large number of employees and or implementing sophisticated access control policies. Additionally security of the resources may be compromised when the duplicate infrastructure in the cloud becomes out of sync with respect to its counterpart in the enterprise s internal network. For instance a user with a revoked or expired privilege may be able access resources hosted in the cloud during a window of time before the duplicate infrastructure synchronizes with the internal infrastructure. Therefore the duplicate identity management and access policy infrastructure may need to be updated frequently to maintain its effectiveness which may increase the cost for hosting resources in the cloud.

Furthermore an enterprises may be reluctant to entrust its identity management and access policy infrastructure to a cloud facility because the compromise of that information may lead to unauthorized access to all enterprise services even those not hosted in the cloud e.g. services provided by servers within the enterprise s managed network . Instead the enterprise may attempt to duplicate to the cloud only a portion of the infrastructure relevant for controlling access to the resources hosted in the cloud. This approach may involve some redesigning of the infrastructure and may again be costly to implement.

In short the inventors have recognized and appreciated that conventional solutions for controlling access to resources hosted in a cloud may be costly to build and or maintain and may fail to provide a satisfactory level of security guarantee. Accordingly in some disclosed embodiments systems methods and apparatus are provided for controlling access to resources hosted in a cloud without duplicating an enterprise s identity management and access policy infrastructure to the cloud.

For example in some embodiments an access gateway component may be provided to implement some of the access control functionalities conventionally implemented by an authentication server in a cloud e.g. the cloud authentication server shown in . The access gateway may be deployed in an internal network controlled by the enterprise e.g. the enterprise network shown in and may have access to the enterprise s existing identity management and access policy infrastructure e.g. via an existing authentication server such as the enterprise authentication server . Alternatively the access gateway may be deployed in a demilitarized zone DMZ which may also be managed by the enterprise but may be separated from the internal network by one or more firewalls.

In some embodiments the access gateway may carry out an access control protocol with a user requesting access to a resource hosted in a cloud and may communicate the outcome of the protocol to one or more access control components deployed in the cloud which may ultimately grant or deny access to the requested resource. For example if the user successfully completes an access request sequence the access gateway may provide to the user a security token that the user can present to an access control component in the cloud as evidence that the user is authorized to access the requested resource. Prior to granting access the access control component in the cloud may verify that the security token is generated by a trusted entity which may be the access gateway itself or some other entity from which the access gateway obtained the security token. For instance in some embodiments the trust relationship between the access control component in the cloud and the entity generating the security token may be implemented according to an Active Directory Federation Services ADFS standard e.g. ADFS v2 or using an SAML protocol.

Various techniques may be employed by the access gateway to authenticate a user. For instance in some embodiments the access gateway may prompt a user to undergo a multi factor authentication procedure by which the user proves his identity to the access gateway based on at least two independent factors. Examples of factors include but are not limited to a piece of secret knowledge e.g. password passphrase or randomly generated secret key a unique physical object e.g. passport credit card smart card or hardware token and some personal physical characteristic of the user e.g. fingerprint voice print facial geometry iris scan etc. . The number and types of factors used for authentication may depend on the risks associated with unauthorized access e.g. as measured by the extent of damages that is likely to result from an instance of unauthorized access .

In addition to authenticating a user the access gateway may employ various techniques to determine whether the user is authorized to access the requested resource. For instance in some embodiments the access gateway may apply one or more enterprise access control policies to the user s identity and the requested resource to determine whether the access request should be granted or denied. For example the access gateway may check whether the user is a purchaser within the enterprise and thus is authorized to run an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application. As another example the access gateway may require the user to undergo multi factor e.g. 2 factor authentication before the user is granted access to an application capable of performing bank transfers.

In some further embodiments the access gateway may prompt the user to submit his computer e.g. the client computer to a health inspection as part of an authorization procedure. For example the computer may have installed thereon one or more health agents programmed to collect configuration and or operational status information regarding the computer. The collected information may be formatted into a statement of health which may be transmitted to the access gateway for examination. As a more specific example the machine health check may be implemented according to the Network Access Protection NAP framework provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. U.S.A.

As used herein the term enterprise may refer to any entity having one or more computing resources that may be accessed remotely by users. These computing resources may be hosted on one or more internal servers controlled by the enterprise and or one or more cloud servers controlled by a cloud computing provider. Examples of enterprises include but are not limited to businesses non profit organizations universities and government entities. Furthermore a system component e.g. hardware or software component is controlled by an entity if the entity takes part in operating maintaining administering and or managing the system component. The entity may or may not own or have exclusive control over the system component and the system component may or may not be physically located on the entity s premises.

The term security token or simply token may refer to any suitable set of information that may be used for purposes of user authentication and or authorization. For example a token may include information identifying the user his attributes and or his access permissions. This information may be expressed as one or more Security Assertion Markup Language SAML assertions e.g. in accordance with SAML 2.0 . However other ways of encapsulating the information may also be suitable as the inventive aspects relating to the content and or format of security tokens are not limited to the use of any particular language or standard.

Following below are more detailed descriptions of various concepts related to and embodiments of inventive systems methods and apparatus for controlling access to resources hosted in a cloud. It should be appreciated that various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the disclosed concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. For instance the present disclosure is not limited to the particular arrangements of components shown in the various figures as other arrangements may also be suitable. Such examples of specific implementations and applications are provided solely for illustrative purposes.

In the example illustrated in the access gateway component has access to an enterprise Security Token Service STS which may be any suitable network component configured to issue security tokens e.g. SAML 2.0 tokens that are trusted by an access control component at the cloud facility such as the cloud STS . Although the enterprise STS and the cloud STS may reside in two different security domains e.g. domains for the enterprise and the cloud facility respectively a cross domain trust relationship may be established from the cloud STS to the enterprise STS using a suitable federated identity framework e.g. ADFS v2 . This trust relationship allows the cloud facility to delegate user authentication and or authorization tasks to the access gateway component in the enterprise domain.

For example rather than performing authentication and or authorization in the cloud the same may be performed by the access gateway component in the enterprise network and the results may be encapsulated in a security token generated by the enterprise STS . Because the cloud STS trusts the enterprise STS access to resources hosted in the cloud may be granted or denied based on information contained in the security token. For instance if the security token contains an assertion that a user e.g. the user is authorized to access a particular resource and the cloud STS verifies that the token was indeed generated by the enterprise the cloud STS may grant the user access to the resource without independently conducting user authentication and or authorization.

The precise interactions between the user the cloud facility and the access gateway component may be implemented in any suitable manner as the inventive concepts disclosed herein are not limited to any particular configuration and or sequence of interactions between the parties. For example in some embodiments the user may first contact the cloud facility when he wishes to access a resource hosted on one or more cloud servers e.g. one of the applications A B . . . or data stores A B . . . . Upon receiving the request a server hosting the requested resource may redirect the user to an STS trusted by the server such as the cloud STS . In some implementations e.g. in accordance with an SAML architecture the cloud STS may be the only STS trusted by the server hosting the requested resource and may have knowledge regarding other trusted STSes to which the user may be further redirected. For instance the cloud STS may redirect the user to the enterprise STS which is trusted by the cloud STS .

It should be appreciated that the user may be redirected any number of times as long as a trust relationship is preserved each time the user is redirected to a different STS. That is the user may be redirected by a first STS to a second STS only if the first STS trusts the second STS. Alternatively the user may not be redirected to any intermediate STS at all. Instead the server hosting the requested resource may redirect the user immediately to the enterprise STS provided the server trusts the enterprise STS .

In the example illustrated in the enterprise STS is published e.g. made accessible from an external network such as the Internet by the access gateway component . This configuration may allow the access gateway component to intercept any communication directed to the enterprise STS . For instance when the user is redirected to the enterprise STS from the cloud STS the access gateway component may intercept that communication and initiate an access control protocol with the user . The access gateway component may request a security token from the enterprise STS only after the user has satisfactorily completed an access request sequence in accordance with the access control protocol so that the security token may serve as evidence that the user is properly authenticated and or authorized by the access gateway component .

Again the above described interactions between the user the cloud facility and the access gateway component are merely illustrative as other sequences and or types of interactions may also be suitable. For example in alternate embodiments the user may contact the access gateway component directly when he wishes to access a resource hosted in the cloud without being redirected by any component in the cloud.

As discuss above any number of suitable techniques may be employed by the access gateway component to authenticate and or authorized the user as the inventive concepts disclosed herein are not limited to any particular access control technique. For example the access gateway component may request that the user undergo multi factor authentication or some other form of strong authentication. The access gateway component may perform some or all of the authentication tasks on its own if it has access to information needed to complete those tasks. Examples of such information include but are not limited to cryptographic keys associated with the user s identity information relating to the user s personal physical characteristics e.g. fingerprint voice print facial geometry iris scan etc. and or information relating to a physical object possessed by the user e.g. magnetic fingerprint of the user s identity card . Alternatively the access gateway component may forward some of the information received from the user e.g. user credentials to the enterprise authentication server which may use the forwarded information to authentic the user on behalf of the access gateway component .

Similarly the access gateway component may perform user authorization on its own if it has access to relevant information e.g. access policy information or it may request that the enterprise authentication server or some other suitable authorization server perform user authorization on its behalf. In the latter case the access gateway component may forward any relevant information to the selected server such as the user s identity e.g. as authenticated by the enterprise authentication server and or information identifying the requested resource e.g. in the form of a Uniform Resource Locator included in the user s access request .

In some further embodiments the access gateway component may prompt the user to submit his computer e.g. the client computer to a health inspection as part of the authorization procedure. In this context the health of a client computer may refer to the configuration and or operating status of one or more protective components of the client computer. The protective components may include software and or hardware components such as an anti virus software firewall and or operating system update manager that fetches and installs patches to remedy system vulnerabilities. Configuration information of such a component may include specific parameters of operation that have been set for the component while operating status of the component may indicate whether the component is operational or disabled.

As discussed above the client computer may have installed thereon one or more health agents programmed to collect configuration and or operational status information. The collected information may be formatted into a statement of health for example according to the Network Access Protection NAP framework provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. U.S.A. The statement of health may be transmitted to the access gateway component for examination. Again the access gateway component may examine the statement of health on its own if it has access to machine health policies for the enterprise or it may forward the statement of health to a health policy server for evaluation.

If the user successfully completes all or a threshold number of the access control procedures implemented by the access gateway component the access gateway component may request a security token from the enterprise STS and transmit it to the user who may in turn forward the token to the entity that redirected the user to the enterprise STS e.g. the cloud STS . The cloud STS may verify that the token was generated by the enterprise STS and that the content of the token indicates the user is authorized to access the requested resource. If the verification succeeds the cloud STS may generate a second security token and transmit it to the user who may then forward the second token to the server hosting the requested resource for verification. If the server successfully verifies the second token it may grant access of the resource to the user . As one skilled in that art can readily appreciate this process of token generation and verification may be repeated for every intermediate STS through which the user has been redirected.

Although specific details of implementation have been described above in connection with it should be appreciated that the inventive concepts disclosed herein are not limited to any specific modes of implementation. For example although the access gateway and the enterprise STS are illustrated in as two separate components they may be implemented together as a single component or in any other suitable configuration. As another example any of the access control techniques employed by the access gateway component may be implemented by third party software. For instance a third party multi factor authentication component may be installed on the access gateway component or the authentications server that performs user authentication on behalf of the access gateway component .

In the example show in the client computer initiates the interactions at act by sending an access request to the hosted resource . The client computer may identify the hosted resource in any suitable manner such as by using a Universal Resource Locator URL . In some embodiments the access request may also identify a user of the client computer for example by including a user name.

At act the hosted resource responds by redirecting the client computer to obtain a security token from the cloud STS which is trusted by the hosted resource . For example the hosted resource may provide to the client computer a network address and or any other identifying information for the cloud STS . In some embodiments the hosted resource may further specify a type of security token to be obtained from the cloud STS .

As instructed by the hosted resource the client computer submits at act a request for a security token to the cloud STS which request may identify in any suitable manner the hosted resource and or the user of the client computer wishing to access the hosted resource .

At act the cloud STS responds by redirecting the client computer to obtain a security token from an enterprise STS that is trusted by the cloud STS e.g. the enterprise STS shown in . Similar to act the cloud STS may in some embodiments provide to the client computer a network address and or any other identifying information for the enterprise STS. The cloud STS may further specify a type of security token to be obtained from the enterprise STS.

At act the client computer acquires a security token from the enterprise STS hereafter the enterprise security token as instructed by the cloud STS . As discussed above the enterprise security token may include one or more SAML 2.0 assertions indicating that the client computer and its user have been properly authenticated and or authorized to access the hosted resource . Furthermore in some embodiments the enterprise security token may include one or more electronic signatures generated by the enterprise STS as evidence for the authenticity of the enterprise security token.

Detailed examples of interactions between the client computer and the enterprise STS through which the client computer acquires the enterprise security token is described below in connection with .

Continuing to act the client computer submits the enterprise security token to the cloud STS for verification. At act the cloud STS verifies that the token was generated by an enterprise STS trusted by the cloud STS e.g. by verifying that an attached signature was generated by the enterprise STS and that the content of the token indicates the client computer and its user are authorized to access the hosted resource . If the verification succeeds the cloud STS generates at act a second security token hereafter the cloud security token and transmits it to the client computer at act . If the verification fails the client computer may in some implementations be informed of the failure and or redirected to a different STS to obtain another security token.

At act the client computer forwards the cloud security token to the hosted resource for verification. The hosted resource verifies the cloud security token in a manner similar to the verification carried out at act . If the verification succeeds the hosted resource grants access to the client computer at act . If the verification fails the client computer may be denied access to the hosted resource and may in some implementations be redirected to a different STS to obtain another security token.

Continuing to an illustrative sequence of interactions is shown between the client computer an enterprise STS e.g. the enterprise STS shown in and an enterprise access gateway publishing the enterprise STS e.g. the access gateway component shown in in accordance with some embodiments. Through these interactions the client computer acquires a security token from the enterprise STS indicating that the client computer and its user are authorized to access a resource hosted in a cloud e.g. the hosted resource shown in .

As discussed above having the enterprise access gateway publish the enterprise STS may allow the enterprise access gateway to intercept communications directed to the enterprise STS . For instance when the client computer requests a security token from the enterprise STS at act the enterprise access gateway intercepts that communication at act and initiate an access control protocol with the client computer by generating a security challenge at act and transmitting the security challenge to the client computer at act . The content of the security challenge may vary depending on the access control techniques employed by the enterprise access gateway . For instance as discussed above the security challenge may include challenges for multi factor authentication and or machine health check.

At act the client computer may collection relevant information and prepare a security response to the challenge received from the enterprise access gateway . For example the client computer may respond to a multi factor authentication challenge by providing multiple user credentials as known in the art. An another example the client computer may use one or more client health agents to collect health information and prepare a statement of health to be included in the security response.

At act the client computer transmits the assembled security response to the enterprise access gateway which verifies each component of the security response at act for user authentication and or authorization. For instance the enterprise access gateway may retrieve authentication information associated with the user s purported identity and determine whether the user is really who he purports to be. As another example the enterprise access gateway may retrieve access policy information and determine whether the user is authorized to access the requested resource. As yet another example the enterprise access gateway may retrieve machine health policy information and determine whether the client computer is sufficiently healthy e.g. unlikely to have been infected by a computer virus to access the requested resource. Alternatively the enterprise access gateway may request one or more suitable servers e.g. the authentication server and the health policy server to perform any of the above described verifications.

If the enterprise access gateway determines at act that the client computer and its user are authorized to access the requested resource it requests a security token from the enterprise STS . In response the enterprise STS generates the requested token at act and transmits it to the enterprise access gateway at act . As discussed above this enterprise security token may indicate that the client computer and its user have successfully passed the access control tests implemented by the enterprise access gateway such as strong authentication and machine health check. At act the enterprise access gateway forwards the enterprise security token to the client computer so that the client computer may present the enterprise security token to an access control component in the cloud e.g. the cloud STS shown in to gain access to the desired resource e.g. the hosted resource shown in .

In the example shown in the computer includes a processing unit having one or more processors and a memory that may include volatile and or non volatile memory. The computer may also include storage e.g. one or more disk drives in addition to the system memory . The memory may store one or more instructions to program the processing unit to perform any of the functions described herein. The memory may also one more application programs and or Application Programming Interface API functions.

The computer may have one or more input devices and or output devices such as devices and illustrated in . These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

As shown in the computer may also comprise one or more network interfaces e.g. the network interface to enable communication via various networks e.g. the network . Examples of networks include a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a non transitory computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other non transitory tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any mariner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

