---

title: Providing online promotions through social media networks
abstract: Systems and methods for providing online promotions integrated with social network-based platforms are disclosed. Promotion details such as rules, offered prizes, incentives and descriptions, survey questions, display banners, terms and conditions, privacy policy, and social networks to integrate the promotion with, are provided by the sponsoring organization to a server. The server generates a custom promotion application or widget for integrating with the organization's social network webpage external to social networks. A participant enters the promotion through these webpages or other links and lists friends in the social network to receive an invitation to enter the promotion. Viral features such as friend invite features, newsfeeds, minifeeds, other features that display online activities of users and people in the users' social network, notifications, requests, and other social media-based platform features to deliver messages to members of the one or more social networks further spread the word about the organization's promotion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229819&OS=08229819&RS=08229819
owner: Wildfire Interactive, Inc.
number: 08229819
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100318
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 186 052 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING ONLINE PROMOTIONS THROUGH A SOCIAL NETWORK BASED PLATFORM filed Aug. 5 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference. This application claims the benefit of the following applications each of which is incorporated by reference 1 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 033 119 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING ONLINE PROMOTIONS THROUGH A SOCIAL NETWORK BASED PLATFORM filed Mar. 3 2008 2 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 078 724 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING ONLINE PROMOTIONS THROUGH A SOCIAL NETWORK BASED PLATFORM filed Jul. 7 2008 and 3 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 161 224 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING ONLINE PROMOTIONS THROUGH A SOCIAL NETWORK BASED PLATFORM filed Mar. 18 2009.

The present invention relates generally to integrating online promotions or campaigns with social networks. More specifically the present invention enables organizations to run promotions integrated with viral features of social networks and to access databases of social networks in conjunction with these promotions.

Social networking sites allow users to upload and share photographs and notes with friends generate personalized newsfeeds and monitor and interact with the activities of users friends and to request and establish connections with other users on the social networking site by becoming friends within the user s social network for example.

Embodiments include methods apparatuses and computer readable media for providing online promotion technology integrated within a social media based platform. A self service technology platform is described that enables individuals or organizations to run different types of promotions such as contests sweepstakes coupons and giveaways that can tap into the viral features of online social networks. An organization can use this online promotion technology to run a variety of campaign or promotional formats online including but not limited to sweepstakes contests instant win games participant generated content contests including contests where the general public votes to determine the winner or winners games company branded games including advergames prediction markets product sampling and providing coupons or discounts as a way to increase product and brand awareness to collect consumer information and to drive purchases. The social media based platform provides certain viral features such as the invite friends feature newsfeeds minifeeds notifications and other requests and indications of advertising applications on the user s social media profile page that spread the word about the promotion and organization.

Participants entering an online promotion may select names of friends within their social network to receive an invitation to enter a promotion. After participants enter the promotion the social media based platform may generate a newsfeed appearing on a newsfeed page of social networks of their selected friends. The newsfeed is generated if the user chooses to publish a newsfeed. This newsfeed contains not only text telling readers about the promotion but also graphical banners promoting the brand of the organization running the promotion. Readers may click on these banners newsfeed text or other links to be directed to a promotion entry form. The graphical banners may include videos artwork or audio clips uploaded by participants of participant generated content contests.

Described in detail below is a system and method of a web based promotion technology to run an online promotion campaign integrated within social media based platforms in order to take advantage of their viral features. Viral marketing and viral advertising refer to marketing techniques that use pre existing social networks to produce increases in brand awareness or to achieve other marketing objectives such as product sales through self replicating viral processes analogous to the spread of pathological and computer viruses. It can be word of mouth delivered or enhanced by the network effects of the Internet for example. Viral promotions may take the form of video clips interactive Flash games advergames ebooks brandable software images or even text messages.

The terms social media based platform and social media network may be used interchangeably. The terms promotion and campaign may be used interchangeably. Organizations may include individuals for profit companies or businesses non profit organizations clubs associations community groups and government organizations. Organizations may also promote third party organizations goods and services. Social media networks include for example social media networks such as Facebook Twitter MySpace Friendster Bebo Orkut Hi5 and Ning social network aggregators that consolidate updates from social websites such as social networks social bookmarking sites and blog entries that allow a user using multiple social websites to have a consolidated stream of information on all their activities across those websites such as FriendFeed and Socialthing specialized social media networks for example YouTube which is dedicated to sharing video online virtual worlds that allow users to meet and network with other users such as Second Life services that allow websites external to social media networks to access social media user data such as FriendConnect Facebook Connect and MySpace Data Availability and other Web 2.0 platforms that allow for making connections sharing and communicating through the use of viral elements.

Consumers may participate in the online promotion through one or more social media based platforms and the social media based platforms viral features are adapted to spread word of the online promotion. Viral features include but are not limited to invite friend features newsfeeds minifeeds other features that display online activities of users and people in the users social network notifications requests other social media based platform features that enable messages to be delivered to members of the one or more social media based platforms and an indication of a user s selected applications on the user s social media profile page.

Various aspects of the invention will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the art will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description. The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

Organizations have long used promotions such as sweepstakes contests instant win games participant generated content contests including contests where the general public votes to determine the winner or winners quizzes games company branded games including advergames product sampling and coupons or discounts as a way to increase product and or brand awareness collect consumer information and drive purchases. The internet has proven to be a highly effective medium for running promotions and many websites have used online contests and other online promotions as a way to drive traffic to their websites and to collect consumer information.

Recently social media networks such as MySpace and Facebook have become an increasingly popular way for internet users to interact with friends and share information online. Social media users have the ability to easily share information with others in their social network. For example social networks provide tools such as automatically generated newsfeeds and minifeeds that display the online activities of users and people in the user s social network and simple to use invite friends features allow a social media user to easily invite friends in the user s social network to join an event or action or even invite friends not currently participating in a social network to join that social network and the event. A social media user may discover new products through the recommendations of friends within the social network. Thus social networks have become an enormously powerful mechanism for virally spreading information about brands products ideas and people.

Some organizations running online promotions have tried to tap into social networks by advertising their promotions to social media users via online banners within social networks. However when a social media user clicks on one of these banners they are directed to the organization s website outside of the social network where they enter the promotion. While this method of advertising promotions through social networks has enabled these organizations to encourage some social media users to enter their promotion it has not enabled them to benefit from the viral or word of mouth power of the social networks because users are directed outside of the social media network to interact with the promotion. For this reason up until now organizations running promotions have been unable to harness the full power of social networks.

Described below is a promotion technology to be integrated with participating social media based platforms that may be used by an organization to run a customized online promotion so that the organization s promotion can tap into a number of viral features provided by the social media based platforms including but not limited to friend invite feature newsfeeds minifeeds other social media based platform features that display the online activities of users and the people in their social network notifications requests other social media based platform features for delivering messages to members of the one or more social media based platforms and an indication of a user s selected applications on the user s social media network profile page that can help to spread the word about the promotion in a highly efficient and cost effective way.

The plurality of client devices A N may be any system device and or any combination of devices systems that are able to establish a connection with another device a server and or other systems. The client devices A N typically include display or other output functionalities to present data exchanged between the device and a user. For example the client devices may be but are not limited to a server a desktop computer a computer cluster a mobile computing device such as a notebook a laptop computer a handheld computer a mobile phone a smart phone a PDA a BlackBerry device and or an iPhone etc. In particular the Google Android software platform allows developers to write software applications to integrate third party applications with users of mobile devices and Apple also allows third party applications developers access to the iPhone platform. In one embodiment client devices A N are each coupled to the network . In some embodiments the client devices may be directly connected to one another.

The network to which the client devices A N are coupled may be a telephonic network an open network such as the internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet. The network may be any collection of distinct networks operating wholly or partially in conjunction to provide connectivity to the client devices and servers and may appear as one or more networks to the serviced systems and devices. In one embodiment communications may be achieved by a secure communications protocol such as secure sockets layer SSL or transport layer security TLS . In one embodiment communications may be achieved via one or more wireless networks.

The client devices A N may be coupled to the network for example the internet via a dial up connection a digital subscriber loop DSL ADSL cable modem and or other types of connection. Thus the client devices A N may communicate with remote servers e.g. web server host server mail server and instant messaging server that provide access to user interfaces of the World Wide Web via a web browser for example.

The user databases promotions database and participant database may store information such as software descriptive data images system information drivers and or any other data item utilized by parts of the social network server the mobile telephone network server and or the web application server for operation. User databases promotions database and participant database may be managed by a database management system DBMS for example but not limited to Oracle DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server PostgreSQL MySQL FileMaker etc. An example set of data to be stored in the social network user database participant database and promotions database is further illustrated in .

The social network server may be any combination of software agents and or hardware modules for establishing a social media based platform for users. The social network server may facilitate interaction and communication among users of the client devices A N with the web application server or with other related applications and or systems via the network . For example the social network server may provide a platform for users of the client devices A N who are members of the social network to upload photos and notes to share with other users of client devices A N who are also members of the same social network. In one embodiment the social network server may facilitate sharing of information about news and activities of members of the social network with other members designated as friends within the social network. The functionality of the social media based platform may also be distributed across multiple servers disposed across the network .

The social network server is in some embodiments able to store and retrieve data from the social network user database . In some embodiments the social network server is able to provide data from the social network user database to another authenticated server such as the web application server via the network . Multiple social network servers may be coupled to the network with one or more social network servers providing services for distinct social networks.

The mobile telephone network server may be any combination of software agents and or hardware modules for establishing a mobile telephone network for users. The mobile telephone network server may facilitate interaction and communication among users of the client devices A N with the web application server or with other related applications and or systems via the network . For example the mobile telephone network server may provide a platform for users of the client devices A N who are members of the mobile telephone network to call or text message other users of the client devices A N. In one embodiment the mobile telephone network server may support web browsing over a mobile telephone.

The mobile telephone network server is in some embodiments able to store and retrieve data from the mobile telephone user database . In some embodiments the mobile telephone network server is able to provide data from the mobile telephone user database to another authenticated server such as the web application server via the network . Multiple mobile telephone network servers may be coupled to the network with one or more mobile telephone network servers providing services for distinct mobile telephone networks.

The web application server may be any combination of software agents and or hardware modules for generating a customized online promotion to be used with a widget and or webpage and or promotion application to be integrated with one or more social media based platforms. The promotion application is used with a social media based platform and allows participants to enter the promotion from within the social media based platform.

Alternatively or additionally the web application server may generate a customized mobile telephone promotion application for use in conjunction with a mobile telephone network platform and or with mobile telephone devices. The mobile telephone promotion application permits a mobile telephone user to view and enter promotions generated by the web application server without having to enter the internet browser on the mobile telephone to enter the promotion.

The web application server is in some embodiments able to communicate with client devices A N via the network to receive detailed information about the promotion from the sponsoring organization s representative through promotion administration software. The detailed information may be stored and retrieved in the promotions database via the network .

After a customized online promotion has been integrated with a promotion application within a participating social media based platform and or a widget and or a webpage the web application server may in one embodiment receive completed promotion entry forms or promotion entry data from participants. In one embodiment a participant may interact with the promotion or enter the promotion without submitting a promotion entry form. In one embodiment the web application server is able to communicate with the social network server via the network to receive information about a participant from the participant s social media profile. The entry form data and the information from the participant s social media profile may be stored subject to a social network s privacy and third party developer guidelines in the participant database via the network for later retrieval and analysis.

In the example of the web application server includes a network interface a firewall not shown a communications module a promotion generation module a data collection module a data analysis module and a winner selection and notification module . Additional modules or fewer modules may be included. The web application server may be communicatively coupled to the promotions database and or the participant database as illustrated in . In some embodiments the promotions database and or the participant database are partially or entirely internal to the web application server .

In the example of the network interface may be one or more networking devices that enable the web application server to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the server through any communications protocol supported by the server and the external entity. The network interface may include but is not limited to one or more of a network adaptor card wireless network interface card router access point wireless router switch multilayer switch protocol converter gateway bridge bridge router hub digital media receiver and or repeater.

A firewall may in some embodiments be included to govern and or manage permission to access data in a computer network such as promotions database and or participant database and track varying levels of trust between different machines and or applications. The firewall may be any number of modules having any combination of hardware and or software components able to enforce a predetermined set of access rights between a particular set of machines and applications machines and machines and or applications and applications for example to regulate the flow of traffic and resource sharing between these varying entities. The firewall may additionally manage and or have access to an access control list which details permissions including for example the access and operation rights of an object by an individual a machine and or an application and the circumstances under which the permission rights stand.

Other network security functions may be performed or included in the functions of the firewall including but not limited to intrusion prevention intrusion detection and personal firewalls. In some embodiments the functionalities of the network interface and the firewall are partially or wholly combined and the functions of which may be implemented in any combination of software and or hardware in part or in whole.

In the example of the web application server includes the communications module or a combination of communications modules communicatively coupled to the network interface to manage a one way two way and or multi way communication sessions over a plurality of communications protocols. In one embodiment the communications module receives data information commands requests and or text based messages over a network. In one embodiment the communications module receives communications from a network e.g. internet wired and or wireless network initiated via a web interface.

Since the communications module is typically compatible with receiving and or interpreting data originating from various communication protocols the communications module is able to establish parallel and or serial communication sessions with users of remote client devices for data and command exchange e.g. user information and or user content .

In addition the communications module can manage log on requests received from one or more users connecting to the web application server including but not limited to generating a new promotion entering a promotion reviewing participant data for a promotion selecting a winner for a promotion and or providing information to be included with a notification and or newsletter to be sent to participants of a promotion. In some instances authenticated sessions are managed by the communications module for user logon processes.

For example the system may utilize a username email and password identification method for authorizing access. The communications module may gather data to determine if a user is authorized to access the system and if so securely logs the user into the system. In other embodiments other forms of identity authentication such as security cards and or digital certificates may be utilized. A user may be able to specify and or obtain a logon ID after subscribing or registering.

The communications module may also establish communication sessions with a social networking server to transmit customized promotion banners and other information for displaying information about a promotion on a webpage within a social networking site or to transmit or receive information about participants.

One embodiment of web application server includes a promotion generation module . The promotion generation module may be any combination of software agents and or hardware components able to request and receive detailed information from an organization or company about the promotion to be generated. Based upon the received information the promotion generation module generates a customized online promotion to be used with a widget and or webpage and or promotion application integrated with one or more social media based platforms. In one embodiment a customized business version of the promotion application is provided to the administrator of an organization running a promotion for adding to the organization s social media network page in order to display a promotion banner on the organization s social media network page. In one embodiment the promotion application can be used to display a promotion banner on the organization s social network page because the promotion application is able to distinguish between downloads to a participant social network page and an organization social network page. In one embodiment the organization s social network page may be run from a business page of the social network if the social network provides business pages for organizations.

In one embodiment a line of software code may also be provided by the promotion generation module for pasting into the organization s webpage or other webpages external to participating social media based platforms. The software code downloads a widget onto the webpage that displays information for advertising the promotion and the organization. The widget integrates the promotion with the viral features of the participating social media based platforms and accesses the data contained in a participant s social media based platform profile without requiring participants to migrate away from the widget. The widget may include but is not limited to clickable banners clickable text and clickable links. Upon clicking on any of the clickable objects the participant may be provided a promotion entry form or some other way to interact with the promotion in order to enter the promotion.

In one embodiment the organization may be provided with the option to display a clickable banner button or link on the website s instead of a widget. Clicking on the banner button or link would take a participant to a webpage containing the promotion entry form

In one embodiment the promotion generation module provides a listing page within each participating social media based platform of all currently active promotions accessible from a webpage within the social media based platform. In one embodiment the listing page only includes promotions that have recently been entered by the participant s social network friends. In one embodiment the listing page only includes promotions that relate to the interests and or demographic of the participant as determined by the participant s social network profile data. In one embodiment the participant can pre define which types of promotions he wishes to appear on the listing page. In one embodiment a listing page of all currently active promotions is provided on a webpage or webpages external to the participating social media based platforms

In one embodiment the promotion generation module may provide a promotion application to a participant for adding to the participant s social network profile if the participant has not previously entered a promotion through the promotion application.

In one embodiment an online promotion for use with mobile telephones on a mobile telephone network platform may allow a mobile device user to access the promotion in multiple ways. The mobile device user may download to his mobile device a mobile phone promotion application designed for use with mobile devices such as an iPhone. Alternatively the mobile device user may access the device s browser and enter a promotion through the social network of his choice or the website of the organization offering the promotion or another website external to the participating social media based platforms. In both situations the viral features of the social network or networks associated with the promotion are available to increase awareness of the promotion and the organization.

In one embodiment the mobile telephone promotion application allows location specific promotions to be offered. For example if a mobile phone user is in proximity to a business running a promotion such as a contest or a coupon giveaway the user receives an alert inviting the user to enter or redeem the promotion.

In one embodiment the mobile telephone promotion application may access global positioning system GPS data provided by a participant s mobile telephone. The GPS data can be used in conjunction with an organization s promotion. For example the GPS data may be used to determine the eligibility of a participant for a promotion For example if a participant is located within a predetermined area within a certain time window the participant would be eligible for a promotion or an incentive. Alternatively or additionally the GPS data can be used to evaluate a participant for example measuring how quickly a participant completes a scavenger hunt promotion that requires participants to visit certain points in a city or region. In one embodiment the GPS data may be used in the generation of activity feeds such as newsfeeds and minifeeds that display information about participants interactions with promotions that are being run using the mobile telephone promotion application. For example when a participant enters a store that is running a promotion a newsfeed may be generated in the participating social network based platforms. In one embodiment the GPS data can also be used by the mobile telephone promotion application to enable a participant to interact with the promotion.

One embodiment of the web application server includes a data collection module . The data collection module may be any combination of software agents and or hardware components able to generate promotion entry forms for a participant and to receive completed promotion entry forms from participants through the communications module . The promotion entry form may advertise the promotion and allow the participant to interact with the promotion by entering the promotion and or providing required information prior to entering the promotion.

In one embodiment the data collection module may provide a method to advertise the promotion and for the participant to interact with the promotion without the explicit use of promotion entry forms. For example the data collection module may collect data from participants through questions used in part of a quiz promotion.

In one embodiment a participant may be advised by the data collection module that by downloading the promotion application the participant grants the web application server permission to access the participant s unique identifier within the social network or the mobile telephone network and also accepts the terms of entering a promotion. Access to a participant s unique identifier enables the web application server to send targeted information relating to the promotion or the organization running the promotion to the participant through the social network server . Terms for entering a promotion may include agreeing to receive unsolicited information for example a newsletter sent by either the web application server or the organization running the promotion. Alternatively or additionally the terms for entering a promotion may include the participant s permission for the organization running the promotion to use the information provided by the participant to promote other goods or services that may or may not be related to the underlying promotion or to promote other related business activities of the organization. In one embodiment if an organization is promoting a third party organization s goods and or services the terms for entering a promotion may include the participant s permission for the third party organization to use information provided by the participant for related business activities.

One embodiment of the web application server includes a data analysis module . The data analysis module may be any combination of software agents and or hardware components able to analyze the data collected from participants in a particular promotion through the participants promotion entry forms or other forms of data resulting from participants interaction with the promotion. The data analysis module may generate data that include but are not limited to date and time of entries unique identifiers of participants participant information such as email address or date of birth and a demographic breakdown of participants by age gender zip code the average age of participants etc. The data analysis module may also generate information about the types of contests prizes or offers that generated the greatest number of entries for example sporting event tickets. In one embodiment the data analysis module may provide names and or unique identifiers of participants who invited the largest number of friends to enter the promotion and or names of participants whose friend invites ultimately resulted in the greatest total number of people who entered the promotion. In one embodiment the data may be numerical graphical or both.

The data analysis module through communications with the communications module may make the data available to an organization running the promotion at a particular secured website and may also provide the analyzed data in a downloadable format for example in an Excel spreadsheet. Alternatively or additionally the data may be sent to the organization in an email through the communications module .

In one embodiment the data analysis module may verify one or more of the data provided by participants in the entry form or during interaction with the promotion. In one non limiting example a participant may be required to be at least 18 years old and or from a specific country state or location before participating in a particular promotion. Thus the participant s age and or geography may be verified prior to permitting the participant to enter the promotion. In another non limiting example a participant s email address or other entry information may be verified before permitting the participant to enter the promotion or if a participant is selected as a winner the participant s email address or other entry information may be confirmed prior to awarding of the prize.

One embodiment of the web application server includes a winner selection and notification module . The winner selection and notification module may be any combination of software agents and or hardware components able to randomly select one or more winners from all the promotion entries as specified by the promotion rules. Alternatively the winner selection and notification module may select a winner according to other criteria specified by the rules of the promotion. The winner selection and notification module may not always be used by an organization to select a winner. The organization may choose to select its own winner for example based upon subjective criteria such as the best slogan submitted for a product. If the organization selects the winner the organization may submit the name of the winner or winners to the winner selection and notification module . Alternatively submission of entries that are subjectively evaluated may be thrown open to judging by members of the social network. For example each member of the social network may be permitted to vote a maximum number of times during the contest or a maximum number of times per day for a preferred entry and the winning entry is the one that garners the greatest total number of votes at the close of the promotion. By integrating user voting within the social media based platform viral features such as newsfeeds and minifeeds further spread the word about the promotion. For example if the promotion were a video contest members of a social network could vote for their favorite video and the act of voting would generate a newsfeed that included but is not limited to the name of the person the name of the video that the person voted for and the name of the organization sponsoring the video contest. In addition the video itself may be embedded in the newsfeed.

Once a winner is selected whether by the winner selection and notification module by the organization running the promotion by voting or by another method the winner selection and notification module may through the communications module notify all the participants who entered the promotion of the identity of the winner or winners. Notification may be by email or through custom messages directed to the social network inbox of all participants. In one embodiment instant win game contestants will be instantly notified on the screen as to whether or not they have won a prize immediately after entering and or through one of the above notification procedures.

In the example of the social network user profile database A can store user profile data including descriptive data of personal information such as but not limited to a first name and last name of the user a valid email address a unique user identifier within the social network birth date gender occupation etc. User profile data may further include interest information which may include but is not limited to activities hobbies photos etc. In one embodiment the social network server may store the information in the social network user database and the web application server may be permitted to access information in the social network user database if the user grants permission. The database may also store a user s social network contacts for example in database B. A user s social network contacts may be provided via one or more software agents and or hardware modules coupled to the database B. For example a user may invite a member of the social network to become a friend and the invited member may become listed as such in the user s list of social network contacts if the invited member agrees.

A mobile telephone user database for a mobile telephone network stores information similar to that of the social network user profile A portion of the social network user database such as name address and mobile telephone number.

In the example of a participant s profile information is stored in database A. Participant profile information includes descriptive data of personal information such as but not limited to a first name and last name of the user a valid email address birth date gender zip code one or more social network affiliations and or mobile telephone network affiliation and a unique identifier on the one or more social networks and or mobile telephone network the participant is affiliated with etc.

The database may also store a participant s responses to surveys and or requests to invite friends for example in database B. A prerequisite to being entered in a promotion may be for a user to complete a survey provided by the administrator of the promotion. Survey questions may include but are not limited to providing a name an email address demographic information an address for receiving free samples and or promotion materials and preference for joining a mailing list. In one embodiment survey questions may include the option of electing to join one or more groups associated with the one or more social media based platforms and the organization or a third party organization. For example a participant may be given the opportunity to click a button or a link in order to become a fan of the organization s Facebook page and the organization is then permitted to send messages via the Facebook platform to this participant so long as the participant remains a fan. In one embodiment clicking on a link or a button or checking a box to elect to become a member of a group associated with an organization will automatically result in the participant becoming a member. Alternatively clicking on a link or button or checking a box to elect to become a member of a group associated with an organization will trigger a pop up window or a new browser window to open where the participant can take action to become a member of a group. Upon submission of a promotion entry form the participant is shown a webpage listing the names of the participant s social network friends and he can select friends to invite to enter the promotion. An organization may provide an incentive to contestants for inviting friends by for example increasing the participant s chances of winning for each friend that is invited or for each invited friend that subsequently enters the promotion.

In the example of the profile information for an organization submitting a promotion is stored in database A. Organization profile information includes but is not limited to the name of the organization address of the organization a website address for the organization names for one or more administrators within the organization an email address for one of the administrators of the promotion login identification and passwords.

The promotions database may also store promotion information in database B. Promotion information may include but is not limited to offered prize or prizes discounts or other incentives and descriptions of those incentives value of the incentives official rules of the promotion requirements to enter the promotion survey questions the active dates for the promotion terms and conditions and the privacy policy of the organization with respect to information collected from participants.

The promotions database may also store banners and widgets associated with a promotion in database C. Types of banners include but are not limited to banners for placing on an organization s website to advertise the organization s promotion interactive widgets mini banners displayed in newsfeeds generated by the social network server that advertise the promotion and banners for displaying to a participant after the participant submits his entry to the promotion. In one embodiment banners may be any size including but not limited to standard banner sizes oriented horizontally or oriented vertically.

In one embodiment organizations can distribute individualized and secure coupons or vouchers as a part of an online promotion through social media channels using the techniques introduced here. These coupons may be distributed through applications within the social media platforms such as Facebook or on webpages which may be integrated with Facebook Connect or other similar services that enable websites to access the profile information of social network users. The coupons or vouchers can contain information such as the name birth date birth year and social network profile photo of the participants interacting with an online promotion. By offering the coupon or voucher via an application within a social network such as Facebook or via a webpage that s integrated with Facebook Connect or a similar service organizations are able to tap into the database of the participant s social media profile to obtain and display identifying information about the participant on the coupon or voucher. This enables the system to provide the participant s information directly on the coupons or vouchers which provides a much higher level of identification of coupon holders than what has been previously available.

The information harvested from a participant s social network depends on what information the participant makes available on his or her social media website. The advantage of this is that this technique provides an extra level of security for companies providing coupons because it is very difficult for a coupon holder to just copy a bunch of coupons and give them to their friends. Including personalized information about the coupon holder on the coupons or vouches is a more secure method of distributing promotional incentives. For example each coupon holder can be limited to receiving a fixed number of coupons and can be forbidden from passing along the coupon to other persons. Each coupon is unique and includes a unique code and if the coupon holder has provided a profile picture the coupon can also include the coupon holder s profile picture for further guarantees of security. These unique codes can be generated and provided to the companies engaging in online promotions or they can be generated externally and provided to the companies. In one embodiment a company s website may include a shopping cart that is able to generate unique codes which can then be uploaded to a system that performs the techniques introduced here. Further these coupons or vouchers may also include a time stamp for further guarantees of authenticity. shows a screen shot of a promotional coupon that includes the photo profile and name and birth date of the recipient coupon holder that was available from the Facebook database. shows a screen shot of a set up process where an organization s representative can control the specific recipient information that gets displayed on the coupon or voucher.

Details of the promotion may include but are not limited to the name of the promotion the prize or prizes discounts or other incentives to be offered along with a description and estimated value of the incentives when the promotion begins and ends requirements to enter the promotion incentives to invite friends terms and conditions of the promotion and any applicable privacy policy. In one embodiment standard terms and conditions and or privacy policy may be offered to the organization for use with the promotion. In one embodiment the organization may define a limit on the overall number of interactions that users may have with a promotion for example a limit on the overall number of discount coupons that may be downloaded during the promotion. The details of the promotion are received by the system at block .

After submission of the promotion information at block the organization s representative is prompted to define survey questions and or text to be included in a customized promotion entry form to be presented to a potential participant. Survey questions may include but are not limited to name address email address interests hobbies vocation etc. In one embodiment questions include data used by an organization for marketing branding and or future product line decisions. The system receives this information at block .

At block the company is prompted to upload to the system a customized banner s or other design work for the promotion. Alternatively template banner designs may be offered to the company for selection. Banners may be used to advertise the promotion and or the brand of the organization sponsoring the promotion. Several types of banners may be uploaded including but not limited to a banner to place on the organization s social network webpage or company webpage on other webpages within or external to a participating social media based platform or on a promotion widget on webpages within or external to participating social media based platforms to advertise the promotion mini banners that may be displayed with newsfeeds minifeeds and other similar user activity display features that are automatically generated when a consumer enters the promotion and a banner for display when a participant has finished entering the promotion. Banners are clickable and may direct a participant to a promotion entry form or other entry point for interacting with a promotion. Alternatively banners displayed after the participant has entered the promotion may direct the participant back to the organization s website or social network page. The system receives the banners and or banner selections from the organization at block .

At block the organization is presented with a clickable button for integrating its promotion with the promotion application in the participating social media based platforms. Clicking this button will result in the integration of the promotion with the promotion application in all participating social media based platforms PSNBP and the organization s own website at block . In fact participants may click a different button for each social network that they want their promotion campaign to display on. Participating social media based platforms are those social media based platforms that are willing to support the promotion application and for which software is available to integrate the promotion application with the particular social media based platform. Examples of online social media based platforms that may participate include Facebook MySpace Bebo Orkut and Friendster. Integrating a promotion with the promotion application within a participating social media based platform enables participants to enter and interact with the promotion within a social network upon clicking a link to the promotion such as found in a newsfeed or friend invite for example. It should be noted that the organization does not need to maintain a webpage on a particular social media based platform in order to have the promotion integrated with that platform. In one embodiment integrating a promotion enables the promotion to be integrated with the viral features of a social network. In one embodiment it enables the promotion to be included in the promotion listings page which is provided by the promotion application in each of the participating social media based platforms and displays all promotions currently integrated with the promotion application. In one embodiment the promotion applications listing page of a given social media based platform is presented to a promotion participant after completion of the entry process for a promotion so that the participant may find other promotions of interest to enter.

In one embodiment an organization can choose which participating social media based platforms they would like to integrate their promotion with rather than automatically having their promotion integrated with all participating social media based platforms.

At block the organization is prompted to select where it would like to locate the entry point or entry points for its promotion. It can choose to locate the entry point s on one or more webpages external to the participating social media based platforms or on one or more webpages within the participating social networks. The system receives the entry point information from the organization at block .

When the chosen entry point is a webpage external to the participating social media based platforms a participant interacts with a widget that advertises the promotion on the website s . The participant clicks on the widget to enter the promotion and the widget displays the promotion entry form. The widget integrates the promotion with the viral features of the participating social media based platforms and accesses the data contained in a participant s social media based platform profile without requiring participants to migrate away from the widget. In one embodiment clicking on the widget enables the participant to interact with the promotion e.g. play a game enter a quiz scratch an instant win card upload a video before the participant is required to complete the entry form. In one embodiment the participant can interact with the promotion without completing an entry form. Upon completing the entry form or the promotion entry process through the widget the participant is directed to invite friends to the promotion by using one of two methods. The participant may select friends from his social network friends list which is connected to the widget via services such as Google s FriendConnect Facebook s FacebookConnect MySpace s DataAvailability project and other similar services that enable third party applications or websites external to social networks to access a user s data and friends list contained within social networks and to transmit users activity information back to the newsfeeds minifeeds and other such activity feeds contained within social networks. Alternatively or additionally the participant may type in friends email addresses or select friends from his email address book which the participant can download into the widget from such email service providers as Gmail Hotmail and Yahoo Mail.

In one embodiment the participant interacts with the promotion via an interactive webpage or webpages instead of a widget. The interactive webpage or webpages provide an entry form for the promotion and enable the participant to interact with the promotion. By connecting with services such as Google s FriendConnect Facebook s FacebookConnect MySpace s DataAvailability project and other similar services the interactive webpage or webpages integrate the promotion with the viral features of the participating social media based platforms and access the data contained in a participant s social media based platform profile without requiring participants to migrate away from the interactive webpage or webpages. In one embodiment the participant may click on a banner button or link that takes the participant to the interactive webpage or webpages for entering and interacting with the promotion. In one embodiment the banner button or link may be located on an organization s website which advertises the promotion a participant who clicks on one of these objects will be taken to the interactive webpage or webpages where he can enter and or interact with the promotion. In one embodiment the interactive webpage or webpages may be hosted by the web application server .

In one embodiment an organization may choose to use a webpage dedicated to the entry process for their promotion rather than a widget because the widget may not provide sufficient graphics or other text as desired by the organization to advertise the promotion. In one embodiment an organization may select the widget because of its compact size and ability to enable a participant to interact with and or enter a promotion without the participant needing to migrate away from the webpage upon which the widget is displayed for example the organization s webpage

When the chosen entry point is on the organization s social network webpage or other webpage within one of the participating social media based platforms a participant clicks on a banner widget or link that advertises the promotion on the particular webpage and the participant is directed to add the promotion application to the participant s social network profile. Alternatively the participant may click on a banner a link in a newsfeed or minifeed a link in a friend invitation or any link to the promotion generated by a viral feature of the social media based platform and the participant will be directed to add the promotion application to the participant s social network profile. In one embodiment the participant may click on the banner widget or link and directly enter the promotion without downloading the promotion application to his social network profile.

At decision block the system determines if the organization has chosen to have an entry point to the promotion on a webpage external to the participating social media based platforms. If the organization chooses to establish an entry point for the promotion on a webpage or webpages external to the participating social media based platforms block Yes at block the system provides software code such as HTML or Javascript code that may be copied and pasted into a webpage or webpages. The organization is also provided the option of publishing its promotion via a microsite linked to the organization s webpage or webpages. For the first option the software code displays a widget on the webpage s the widget advertises the promotion and enables a participant to interact with and enter the promotion thus the widget functions as an entry point to the promotion. In one embodiment the organization can select from a variety of widget templates that offer different design layout and color options. Each template has its own unique software code that the organization can copy and paste into a website s to display the widget. In one embodiment the organization may be provided with the option to display a clickable banner button or link on the webpage s instead of a widget. Clicking on the banner button or link would take a participant to a webpage containing the promotion entry form.

For the microsite option the organization representative does not need to paste code into a webpage. The promotion administration software permits the representative to simply click on an appropriate button that triggers publication of the organization s microsite.

The process continues to block where the system presents a list of the participating social media based platforms with which the organization s promotion has been integrated. The system also provides links corresponding to these participating social media based platforms to which the organization can if it wishes add a promotion banner entry point to particular webpages within those participating social networks. The webpages may be those that the organization maintains within the selected social media based platforms. Alternatively or additionally the webpages may also be maintained by entities other than the organization that permit the organization to insert promotion banners entry points. The system receives the selected social media based platforms at block .

In one embodiment regardless of whether the organization chooses to add a promotion banner entry point to particular webpages within the participating social media based platforms the promotion application will list the organization s promotion on a promotion listing page with a clickable link within the participating social network based platforms. In one embodiment the organization s promotion will also be listed on a promotion listing webpage that is external to the participating social media based platforms. Thus a participant may easily find and enter the promotion without having to go to a particular organization s webpage.

At block the system provides the organization with two options for integrating a promotion with a social media based platform. For the first option a banner is added to the webpages of the specified social media based platforms. The details for publishing a banner on webpages within different social media based platforms may vary. However as an example the process for publishing a promotion banner on the organization s Facebook webpage s will be described. Clicking on the Facebook link provided at block takes the organization s representative to a Facebook page where the representative can click on a link to download the promotion application for publishing promotion banners within Facebook. Because the application is downloaded to a business page on Facebook the promotion application recognizes that the user is an organization and provides customized features for business users. In one embodiment the organization downloads a customized business version of the promotion application. The organization is then prompted to provide its log in information supplied to the promotion administration software that it previously established at block . After inputting the log in information the organization is taken to a webpage where the organization s promotions that are integrated with the promotion application in Facebook are listed. A banner publication button is displayed next to each promotion which when clicked will add the banner for that promotion to the organization s Facebook page s . The process ends at block and at this point the promotion is ready to be entered from the organization s social network page and or a webpage external to the participating social networks. Alternatively the start of the promotion may be delayed until a specific date received by the system at block .

For the second option the organization can create a dedicated tab within the organization s social network page within which they can publish one or more promotions such as provided for by the social network Facebook.

In one embodiment a promotion banner may be added to a webpage within a participating social media based platform that is not controlled by the organization running the promotion if the controller of the webpage agrees. For the example Facebook platform the controller of the webpage would download the promotion application from within Facebook first and then go through a similar process as described above for adding a banner for the promotion to the webpage.

In one embodiment an organization may paste the software code for displaying a widget on one or more webpages within a participating social media based platform if the platform permits pasting software code for widgets for example the MySpace platform.

If the organization chooses to not publish the promotion on its own webpage or another webpage external to the social media based platforms block No the process continues at block as described above.

The process starts at decision block where the system determines if a participant has indicated an interest in the promotion. Interest in the promotion is indicated when a participant clicks on a link to enter the promotion. There are multiple ways for a participant to enter a promotion. The participant may click on a widget banner or link on the organization s website or e newsletter on a widget banner or link on other webpages external to the participating social media based platforms or on a widget banner or link within a social media based platform such as on the organization s webpage within a social network or on a link generated by a viral feature of a social network such as a newsfeed minifeed or friend invite. The participant may also click on a link in a banner advertisement which will direct the participant to the promotion widget or webpage for entering the promotion. If interest in the promotion is not detected block No the system remains at decision block until a participant clicks on a promotion link.

If interest in the promotion is detected block Yes at decision block the system checks the date and time to determine if the promotion is currently valid and still running. If the promotion has ended block No at block the system notifies the participant that the promotion has expired.

The process continues to block where the system may provide a randomly selected winner or winners for the promotion and transmit the name and contact information of the winners to the organization. Alternatively the organization may decide to choose a winner or winners in a different manner on its own. For example if the promotion is seeking entries for a new product slogan the organization may have its own judging procedures.

At block the system may provide communications that notify promotion participants of the winner or winners of the promotion. If the system does not select the winners the organization may provide the information to the system. Winners and non winners may receive different messages. Communications may be done through email or through custom messages directed to the social network inbox of all participants. Alternatively or additionally winners may be listed on the organization s website and or the organization s social network page.

At block the system may provide to the organization either raw data and or analyzed data with statistics and or graphs about the participants who entered the promotion. Data may include but are not limited to a demographic breakdown of participants by age gender zip code the average age of participants etc. Data may be obtained directly from participants entry forms. In one embodiment aggregate data may be provided by analyzing data from participants social network profiles. The data and or analysis may be available at a particular secured website. Alternatively or additionally the system may email the results to the organization. The process ends at block and the promotion is complete.

If the promotion has not ended block Yes at decision block the system determines whether the participant clicked on a link within a social media based platform. If the participant clicked on a widget or link outside of a social media based platform block No the system checks at decision block to see whether the participant is eligible to enter. A participant is eligible to enter the promotion only if he has not exceeded a pre set number of promotion entries or coupon downloads within a specified time period where the number of entries or downloads and the time period are determined by the organization sponsoring the promotion. For example if the organization specifies that a participant may enter a sweepstakes promotion up to a maximum of three times per day and the participant has only entered once so far that day then the participant is eligible to enter. The system can check to see if a cookie has already been established on the participant s computer that includes information that the participant has exceeded the number of entries or downloads for a given period of time for that promotion. Although cookies provide a way to track whether participants have previously entered a promotion it is not foolproof because a participant can circumvent this check by erasing related cookies from his computer s memory. Alternatively or additionally the user can be required to enter his email address and the number of promotion entries or coupon downloads can be tracked and associated with the email address. If the participant is not eligible to enter block No the process ends at block .

If the participant is still eligible to enter block Yes the system provides the participant with an entry form at block . The promotion entry form prompts the participant for information that may include but is not limited to name email address address birth date gender zip code country of residence and custom survey questions provided by the organization. In some embodiments the participant may be able to interact with the promotion before filling out an entry form e.g. receive an instant win card before needing to complete an entry form or interact with the promotion without filling out an entry form e.g. to vote for a participant generated video entry . In both cases the widget integrates the promotion with the viral features of the participating social media based platforms and accesses the data contained in a participant s social media based platform profile without requiring participants to migrate away from the widget.

In one embodiment the participant may be directed to enter and interact with the promotion via a webpage rather than via a widget.

At block the system receives the participant s entry form and or any other information provided by the participant during the interaction with the promotion.

Next at decision block the system offers the participant the option to log into Facebook Connect or another service that enables the system to tap into the participant s social network data. If the system determines that the participant does not want to log into a connecting service No the process continues to block . If the system determines that the participant does want to log into a connecting service block Yes the process continues to block .

After the participant has submitted the entry form or completed the entry process the system invites the participant to invite their friends to interact with the promotion. In one embodiment a participant may increase his chances of winning a prize or increase the value of a given discount or other incentive by inviting friends to enter the promotion. At block the system provides one or more ways to invite friends to enter the promotion. In one embodiment the system provides links to a list of services such as Google s FriendConnect Facebook s FacebookConnect MySpace s DataAvailability project and other similar services that enable third party applications or websites external to social networks to access a user s data and friends list contained within social networks and to transmit participant activity data back to the social networks. After logging into the chosen service the participant is presented with a list of his social network friends and he can select friends to invite to the promotion. In one embodiment a participant only needs to select from the list of services during the first interaction with the widget during subsequent interactions with the widget the participant will automatically be logged into the chosen service. Further by logging in to one of these services the participant grants the web application server access to the participant s unique identifier as assigned by the social network server of the social media based platform maintaining the friends list accessed by the participant. Then the web application server is permitted to access the personal data contained in the participant s social media based platform profile subject to the social network s privacy and third party developer guidelines. Additionally the web application server is permitted to transmit information about the participant s interactions with the promotion to the newsfeeds minifeeds and other user activity feeds of the participating social network. In addition the participant agrees to the terms and conditions and or a privacy policy specified by the web application server that applies to the organization running the web application server.

The links in the list of services provided by the system at block may also include email service providers such as Gmail Hotmail and Yahoo Mail. The participant may select friends from his email address books maintained by these providers. Alternatively or additionally the participant may simply type in friends email addresses.

At block the system receives the list of friends that the participant wishes to invite to enter the promotion or the email addresses of friends entered by the participant. The process continues at block as described below.

If the participant clicked on a link within a social media based platform block Yes at decision block the system determines whether the participant has previously downloaded the promotion application to the participant s social network profile. By downloading the promotion application the web application server is granted access to the participant s unique identifier as assigned by the social network server and is then able to access the personal data contained in a participant s social media based platform profile subject to the social network s privacy and third party developer guidelines. In addition the participant agrees to the terms and conditions and or a privacy policy specified by the web application server that applies to the organization running the web application server. Because the web application server stores each participant s unique identifier number in a participant database only participants who have not previously downloaded the promotion application are required to do so.

If the participant has not previously downloaded the promotion application block No at block the system directs the participant to a webpage with the promotion application available for downloading. After the participant downloads the promotion application to the participant s social media profile the system determines if the participant is eligible to enter the promotion at decision block . As described above a participant is eligible to enter the promotion only if he has not exceeded a pre set number of promotion entries or coupon downloads within a specified time period where the number of entries or downloads and the time period are determined by the organization sponsoring the promotion. Because the participant is accessing the promotion via an application within a social network or via a service such as Facebook Connect that enables the system to access the social network profile data of the participant the system can identify participants that have already entered or interacted with the promotion using the participant s social network identification. In contrast to the cookie method of determining the eligibility of a participant greater security is provided by tracking participants through their social network identification because participants cannot edit or tamper with the recorded number of entries associated with the participant s identification. If a participant is determined ineligible to enter block No the process ends at block . If a participant is eligible to enter block Yes the process continues to block . In one embodiment the participant may simply click on a promotion banner and enter the promotion without downloading the promotion application.

If the participant has previously downloaded the promotion application block Yes at block the system directs the participant to a webpage with a promotion entry form. The promotion entry form prompts the participant for information that may include but is not limited to name email address address birth date gender zip code country of residence and custom survey questions provided by the organization. In one embodiment the promotion entry form is pre populated with information pulled directly from the participant s social network profile page. In one embodiment the information pulled from the participant s social network profile page may be used to expedite or simplify the promotion entry process for the participant whether or not a promotion entry form is used by the promotion. For example in an instant win promotion the participant s information may be used instead of requesting the participant to fill out a promotion entry form.

The promotion entry form also includes terms and conditions and or a privacy policy that apply to the organization administering the promotion. The organization s terms and conditions and or privacy policy may be different from those of the company running the web application server. By submitting the promotion entry form the participant agrees to the organization s terms and conditions and or privacy policy. After the participant fills out the promotion entry form and submits it the system receives the information from the promotion entry form at block .

In one embodiment a promotion may allow participants to upload participant generated content including but not limited to videos photos artwork and audio clips. Non limiting examples of promotions that may allow uploading of participant generated content include video contests photo contests and song contests. It should be noted that some social networks may not allow participant generated content to be integrated into a particular social network s newsfeeds minifeeds or other viral features.

In one embodiment a participant may increase his chances of winning a prize or increase the value of a given discount or other incentive by inviting friends within his social network to enter the promotion. At block the participant is provided a list of the names of all friends in the participant s social network. The participant can then easily select which friends to invite to the promotion. At block the system receives the participant s friends list.

If the organization is offering a coupon or voucher for participating in the promotion at block the relevant identifying information is pulled from the participant s social network profile data included with the information on the coupon and presented to the participant. Identifying information includes but is not limited to the participant s name birth date age and a profile photo. The participant can print the coupon email the coupon or click directly to the organization s website to redeem the coupon.

At block an invitation highlighting the prize prizes discounts or other incentives offered by the organization is automatically sent to the social network inbox of the selected friends. These friends can choose to accept the invitation which will direct them to the promotion entry form where they too can choose to invite friends from their social network.

At block after the participant has completed entry into the promotion via the promotion application or the promotion widget the system directs the participant to a promotion webpage that lists other promotions generated by the web application server that are currently valid. In one embodiment the participant is presented with a list of promotions that are matched or related to the interest and demographic information contained in the participant s social network profile data. In one embodiment the participant is presented with a list of promotions that the participant s social network friends have recently entered and or interacted with. This list may include specific information about the interactions that the participant s social network friends have had with the promotions for example it may display participant generated content that the participant s social network friends have recently uploaded to participant generated content contests or it may display the highest scores of the participant s social network friends who have recently interacted with games or quizzes. The participant may also choose to return to the original promotion without having to re enter the promotion entry form to invite more friends to increase the participant s chances of winning a prize or increase the value of a given discount or other incentive. However the rules of the promotion or social media based platform running the promotion may limit a participant to entering the promotion no more than once a day or may limit the number of friends that can be invited daily.

In one embodiment after the participant has completed entry into the promotion the participant is directed to a custom banner that encourages the participant to visit the organization s website or social network webpage.

In one embodiment the participant is automatically directed to the organization s website or social network page upon completing the entry process.

At block the system automatically generates a newsfeed that may appear on the newsfeed page of the participant s social network friends. This newsfeed not only contains text telling readers about the promotion that their friend entered but may also contain graphical audio or video banners promoting the brand of the organization running the promotion and encouraging readers to enter the promotion. Readers can click on these banners or on the newsfeed text and they will be directed to the promotion entry form. In one embodiment the system may also automatically generate minifeeds that appear in each participant s profile indicating that the participant has entered the promotion along with graphical audio or video mini banners promoting the brand of the organization running the promotion. In one embodiment other viral features of the social network may be used to spread the word about the organization and the promotion.

At decision block the system determines whether a viewer has clicked on a mini banner a link in a newsfeed a link in a friend invite or any link to the promotion generated by a viral feature of the social media based platform. If no participant has clicked on the mini banner newsfeed link friend invite or other viral feature link block No the system returns to decision block to await another s participant s interest in the promotion. If a participant does click on the mini banner newsfeed link friend invite or other viral feature link block Yes the system returns to decision block to determine whether the promotion is currently valid. The process continues as described above.

It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that other types of promotions e.g. sweepstakes contests instant win games participant generated content contests including contests where the general public votes to determine the winner or winners quizzes games company branded games including advergames product sampling and give aways such as coupons and vouchers may also be run with the online promotion technology resulting in linking of these promotions with the viral features of social networks. For these different promotion formats the online promotion would be customized according to the promotion s rules and unique features and still fall within the scope of this disclosure. For example an instant win contest may be implemented such that a participant who fills out an entry form is immediately provided with an electronic scratch and win. In this case the promotion rules may specify that the participant need not wait until the end of the promotion to be confirmed as a winner and to win a prize.

It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that other versions of the online promotion technology may also be implemented. For example white label versions of the promotion technology may be provided that enable the organization to have more customized branding and features while still enabling the promotion to benefit from the core technology which integrates promotions with the viral features of social networks.

Embodiments of the invention described above enable organizations to run promotions that participants enter either within a social network or from outside of social media based platforms and that take advantage of the viral power of social networks. By integrating promotions with the friend invite features newsfeeds minifeeds and other features that display online activities of users and people in the users social network and notifications requests and other social media based platform features to deliver messages to members of the one or more social media based platforms organizations are enabled to run promotions that can be spread virally within the social networks. A participant entering a promotion that is integrated with a social media based platform can with a few easy clicks invite their social network friends to enter the contest. In addition a participant s friends will be able to read about the promotion on their social network newsfeed page as a result of the newsfeed that may be generated when someone enters a promotion that is run using the promotion technology. These are highly powerful ways for organizations to cost effectively spread the word about their promotions and their brands.

There are many possible compensation schemes through which an owner or administrator of the promotion technology may receive compensation including but not limited to generating promotion applications and providing related services. For example the organization that wishes to run a promotion may be required to pay a flat fee for each promotion the fee for the promotion may be proportional to the duration that the promotion is active and or a fee may be charged for each unique participant who enters the promotion. Alternatively or additionally for the case of white label versions of the promotion technology a license may be granted to an organization for running one or more promotions. In one embodiment an organization such as a marketing agency may choose to license the promotion technology to run one or more promotions for a third party organization s goods and or services.

The above detailed description of examples of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having functions or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternatives or sub combinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

Various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and in no way limits the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Although examples have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes can be made to these examples. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than in a restrictive sense.

