---

title: Wheeled mobility device containment systems and occupant retention systems and methods of containing wheeled mobility devices and retaining occupants thereof
abstract: A system to contain a wheeled mobility device in a vehicle, includes: a rearward opening to allow access by the wheeled mobility device by moving the wheeled mobility device forward relative to the orientation of the wheeled mobility device; a forward barrier positioned opposite the rearward opening and connected to the vehicle to limit forward motion of the wheeled mobility device, the forward barrier including at least one energy absorbing member, and at least a first lateral barrier to limit lateral motion of the wheeled mobility device to a first side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08651782&OS=08651782&RS=08651782
owner: University of Pittsburgh—Of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education
number: 08651782
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100520
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 179 846 filed May 20 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under the Department of Education National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research Grant No. H133E060064. As such the United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The following information is provided to assist the reader to understand the devices systems and or methods disclosed below and the environment in which such devices systems and or methods will typically be used. The terms used herein are not intended to be limited to any particular narrow interpretation unless clearly stated otherwise in this document. References set forth herein may facilitate understanding of the devices systems and or methods or the background. The disclosure of all references cited herein are incorporated by reference.

A number of systems have been developed to secure wheeled mobility devices and restrain occupants of such wheeled mobility devices in moving vehicles. The term wheeled mobility device refers to wheeled devices for providing mobility to individuals of restricted mobility including but not limited to manually propelled wheelchairs powered wheelchairs scooters track systems and the like. Such wheeled mobility devices are sometimes referred to herein collectively as wheelchairs. A number of systems to secure a wheelchair or other wheeled mobility device include a four point tie down system which include four straps that attach to the floor of the vehicle for example a van or bus and the frame of the wheelchair. Four point tie down systems are effective but require the bus driver or another person to secure the wheelchair.

Automated docking systems are also available. An automated docking system is an independent system in which a wheelchair user backs into a docking receiver that is securely attached to the floor. The docking system can for example include one or more jaws that move to grab a universal docking geometry. Such universal docking geometries include additional hardware elements attached the wheelchair frame. Such systems thus require wheelchair users to add hardware to their wheelchairs. Commercially available wheelchairs are not manufactured to include universal hardware elements.

A rear facing wheelchair passenger station or system is a station or system that requires the wheelchair user to face the rear of the vehicle. In such a system a wheelchair user backs into a forward excursion barrier and an arm and block effectively squeeze the sides of the wheelchair. The system is effective. However users dislike facing the rear of the bus. A similar system without powered side plates allows a wheelchair to be freely positioned in the system. However that system may be unsafe during sharp turns.

In one aspect a system to contain a wheeled mobility device in a vehicle includes a rearward opening to allow access by the wheeled mobility device by moving the wheeled mobility device forward relative to the orientation of the wheeled mobility device a forward barrier positioned opposite the rearward opening and connected to the vehicle to limit forward motion of the wheeled mobility device the forward barrier including at least one energy absorbing member and at least a first lateral barrier to limit lateral motion of the wheeled mobility device to a first side.

The forward barrier and the first lateral barrier can for example be positioned so that a wall of the vehicle provides a barrier to lateral motion of the wheeled mobility device to a second side.

The system can also include a second lateral barrier to limit lateral motion of the wheeled mobility device to a second side.

The system can further include a system to limit motion of the wheeled mobility device in a rearward direction. In a number of embodiments the system to limit motion of the wheeled mobility device in a rearward direction comprises at least one rearward barrier.

The first lateral barrier can for example be movable between a stowed position and a deployed position. The rearward barrier can for example be movable between a stowed position and a deployed position.

The system can further include an occupant barrier positionable to be in proximity with a user of the wheeled mobility device when the wheeled mobility device is positioned in cooperation with the system. The occupant barrier can for example be pivotable from a stowed position out of proximity with the user into a deployed position in proximity with the user. The occupant barrier can for example include at least one energy absorbing member.

The forward barrier can for example be positioned so that the wheeled mobility device is facing forward or generally or approximately forward relative to the vehicle when in cooperation with the system.

The at least one lateral barrier can for example not contact the wheeled mobility device or be spaced therefrom when the wheeled mobility device is in place to be contained by the system.

Similarly the forward barrier can for example not contact or be spaced from the wheeled mobility device when the wheeled mobility device is in place to be contained by the system.

In a number of embodiments the system includes no securement devices for connection to the wheeled mobility device.

The deployed position of the occupant barrier can for example be adjustable to account for at least one of varying sizes of occupants and varying occupant positions.

In a number of embodiments the system includes an occupant barrier positionable to be in proximity with a user of the wheeled mobility device when the wheeled mobility device is positioned in to be in cooperation with or to be contained by the system wherein the occupant barrier is movable between a stowed position and a deployed position and wherein at least one of the lateral barrier and the occupant barrier can be moved into the deployed position in a powered manner upon activation of a switch or manually.

The forward barrier can for example include an opening to allow position of a forward portion of a scooter within the opening.

In another aspect a method of containing a wheeled mobility device in a vehicle includes providing a rearward opening to allow access by the wheeled mobility device by moving the wheeled mobility device forward providing a forward barrier positioned opposite the rearward opening and connected to the vehicle to limit forward motion of the wheeled mobility device the forward barrier including at least one energy absorbing member and providing at least a first lateral barrier to limit lateral motion of the wheeled mobility device to a first side.

In a further aspect a method of containing a wheeled mobility device in a vehicle includes providing a plurality of barriers adjacent to the wheeled mobility device without connecting any securement device to the wheeled mobility device. At least one of the barriers can for example be movable between a stowed position wherein the at least one of the barriers is not adjacent and in a position to contain to the wheeled mobility device and a deployed position wherein the at least one of the barriers is adjacent to the wheeled mobility device.

The devices systems and or methods along with the attributes and attendant advantages thereof will best be appreciated and understood in view of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an abutment member includes a plurality of such abutment members and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth and reference to the abutment member is a reference to one or more such abutment members and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the terms restrain restraint and variants thereof refers to a methods devices and or systems employed in actively holding an occupant in place with for example a seat belt . As used herein the terms retain retention and variants thereof refer to methods devices and or systems employed to hold an occupant in place while not necessarily touching or restraining the occupant but prevent an occupant from excessive movement for example an armrest can be or form part of a retention device . As used herein the terms secure securement and variants thereof refer to methods devices and or systems employed to physically attach to a wheelchair or other wheeled mobility device to anchor the wheeled mobility device to the vehicle structure and to prevent movement thereof for example a tiedown a strap a hook a force application member etc. . As used herein the terms contain containment and variants thereof refer to methods devices and or system employed to generally passively prevent excessive movement of a wheelchair or other wheeled mobility device when forces act upon the wheeled mobility device to cause it to move for example slide or tip . A containment device need not contact the wheeled mobility device or apply force to the wheelchair when in contact with the wheeled mobility device before such a force is experienced A containment device need only be positioned adjacent a wheeled mobility device to abut the wheeled mobility device when motion is imparted to the wheeled mobility device via an experienced force for example upon abrupt deceleration acceleration or turning of a vehicle to limit the motion of the wheeled mobility device.

In several embodiments devices systems and methods described herein relate to containment of wheeled mobility devices wheelchairs scooters and the like which are sometimes referred to collectively herein as wheelchairs and retention of occupants thereof while in for example in moving vehicles. In several embodiments devices and systems described herein contain wheelchairs that is prevent excessive movement thereof and retain wheelchair occupants travelling in for example large accessible transit vehicles LATVs such as buses or vans. In a number of embodiments wheelchair users can use the devices and systems in a forward facing direction relative to the orientation of the vehicle . Further in a number of embodiments the wheelchair can enter into connection with the devices and systems while the wheelchair occupant is traveling facing towards the front of the vehicle. Although such devices and or systems are particularly adapted for use with a wheelchair oriented in a forward facing direction relative to the vehicle the devices and or systems can also be oriented opposite to the direction of the vehicle such that the wheelchair occupant is facing rearward with respect to the vehicle. In several embodiments no additional brackets and or other specialized connectors are required on the wheelchair to use the devices and system. The devices and system can for example be used independently that is without assistance by wheelchair users that ride in LATVs. In several embodiments the devices and systems include at least three abutment members barriers or barrier systems to contain stabilize retain and or limit motion of the wheelchair and or occupant.

One representative embodiment of a system is illustrated in . System includes a forward with respect to the orientation of the wheelchair to be contained excursion barrier or barrier system that prevents a wheelchair from rolling sliding forward and prevents wheelchair seated occupants from sliding forward and onto a floor of a vehicle in the event of a sudden vehicle deceleration or stop in the case that system is orientate so that wheelchair is orientate in generally the same directions as vehicle . In the illustrated embodiment barrier includes two energy absorbing generally vertically oriented abutment structures that are connected to and supported by supports or posts . Abutment structures can for example be positioned to contact the occupant s knees and or shins or to contact a component of the wheelchair see for example such as a footrest or an extending member to which footrest is attached or a member of the wheelchair seat frame. In several embodiments barrier system is constructed to stop forward movement of the wheelchair before stopping forward movement of the occupant to reduce the likelihood of injury to the occupant. Abutment structure can for example be formed of or include one or more energy absorbing elements or members that can for example include of be formed from a resilient polymeric material such as a foamed polymer for example polystyrene and or polyurethane and or elastomeric polymers as known in the energy absorbing arts. Such energy absorbing elements can for example elastically and or permanently deform to absorb energy. Further shock absorbing connectors as known in the art can be connected to abutment structures . With reference to energy absorbing abutment structures can for example allow greater energy absorbing deformation in an area A in which an occupant s knees contact abutment structures than in an area B in which a component of wheelchair contacts abutment structures . Energy absorbing padding can for example be thicker and or less stiff in area A than in area B.

Forward excursion barrier system can for example include an opening in the middle thereof between posts and abutment structures that can be temporarily opened for example closed or partially closed by movable or flexible elements or coverings or permanently opened to for example allow a scooter type wheeled mobility device to move further forward and contact abutment structure or member which can for example be attached to and span the distance between posts of excursion barrier . Supports can for example be bolted to floor of vehicle illustrated schematically in the figures or be integrated into existing floor tracks.

System further includes at least one lateral barrier which can for example be movable for example pivotable downward from a generally vertical or stowed position see for example into a generally horizontal deployed or operational position see for example to prevent wheelchair from tipping sideways or sliding for example into the isle of vehicle during a sharp vehicle turn. Lateral barrier need not be in contact with wheelchair when deployed but should be sufficient close to wheelchair to prevent substantial lateral movement thereof. For example the space between lateral barrier and wheelchair as well as the space between vehicle wall and wheelchair when vehicle wall forms one lateral barrier can be between approximately 1 to 4 inches. The distance between wall and wheelchair can for example vary if there is a flip up seat illustrated in dashed lines in mounted to vehicle wall . Lateral barrier as well as forward barrier are containment devices or systems as described above and need only be positioned adjacent wheelchair to abut the wheeled mobility device when motion is imparted to the wheeled mobility device via an experienced force for example upon abrupt deceleration acceleration or turning of a vehicle to limit the motion of the wheeled mobility device. Unlike a number of currently available devices for use in connection with wheelchairs in vehicles there is no need to move the containment barriers for use in system into contact with wheelchair to immobilize wheelchair upon initial placement of wheelchair in system .

In the illustrated embodiment a generally U shape or V shaped lateral barrier is pivotably connected to support via connectors in the vicinity of the ends thereof. Alternatively such a lateral barrier or barriers can be fixed in position. Lateral barrier barrier can for example be activated to pivot downward into a generally horizontal or operational position via a wall mounted control see or manually pivoted downward. Lateral barrier can for example be stowed by means of a torsion spring a motor manually operated or can be permanently placed in a deployed position see . In the representative embodiment of the wheelchair user is traveling in a forward facing position when entering system . A lateral or side vehicle wall is adjacent to a first side of wheelchair to prevent tipping or sliding in the direction of the first side . Lateral wheelchair barrier is adjacent the other or second side of wheelchair to prevent tipping or sliding in the direction of the second side . A second lateral wheelchair barrier not shown but which can be similar to or identical to lateral barrier can be used on the first side of wheelchair if the wheelchair is not to be positioned suitably close to a vehicle wall.

An optional occupant barrier or barrier system can for example be pivotable down into proximity with for example the wheelchair user s lap in a manner similar to the pivoting of lateral wheelchair barrier or barriers into a deployed position. In the illustrated embodiment occupant barrier is pivotably connected to supports via connectors . Occupant barrier prevents the occupant from sliding forward during a sudden stop of vehicle and can also provide a handhold for occupant stabilization during the ride. In a number of embodiments occupant barrier can function to prevent forward movement of the occupant within wheelchair and function to abut an armrest or other frame portion of wheelchair to prevent forward wheelchair movement.

As set forth above occupant barrier can be optional and can for example be moved out of the way during emergencies or if desired by the wheelchair user. See for example . Occupant barrier can for example be provided with one or multiple energy absorbing members such as abutment member for example including energy absorbing padding to limit forces upon the occupant during forward movement of the occupant onto contact with occupant barrier . Occupant barrier can also be adjustable for example via one or more telescoping sections or hinging sections to bring occupant barrier closer to or farther away from or higher or lower relative to a seated occupant. Occupant barrier can for example be designed for example to be U or V shaped so that it fits over or around or otherwise does not interfere with a range of scooter type wheelchair steering columns tillers . Occupant barrier can for example be configured to include one structure or more than one structures.

System can further optionally include at least one system or device that limits or prevents rearward rolling in the case of a manual wheelchair or sliding of wheelchair . In a hook or other connector is attached to an extending piece of webbing or other length of material which can for example be retractably wound within a breaking system as known in the art which locks extension of webbing or cable in the case of a threshold force thereon or experiencing of a threshold acceleration. Connector can for example attached to any part of wheelchair .

Alternatively a system or device to prevent rearward movement for example rolling or sliding can be can be mounted on vehicle rearward of wheelchair . For example illustrate a system which can for example be manually or automatically moved for example pivoted or telescoped into position rearward of wheelchair or other wheeled mobility device to abut wheelchair and limit or prevent rearward movement thereof. In the embodiment illustrated in system includes telescoping section for transition between a stowed and a deployed position. Other embodiments can for example include a retractor with a piece of belt webbing that connects to a receptacle on the lateral barrier.

Additionally or alternatively a system or structure to limit or prevent rearward movement of wheelchair can be positioned on or deployable from the floor of vehicle to capture one or more wheels of wheelchair . for example illustrate an embodiment of a system positioned on or deployable from the floor of vehicle and including a forward abutment member and a rearward abutment member . One front wheel of wheelchair is positioned between the forward abutment member and rearward abutment member when wheelchair is positioned to be contained by system . Rearward abutment member can for example include a sloped surface so that front wheel of wheelchair can more readily pass thereover during movement of wheelchair into position to be contained by system . In the illustrated embodiment one system is positioned on the vehicle wall side or first side of system . A second system can be positioned on the second side of system to cooperate with a second front wheel of wheelchair .

A system can also be integrated with or connected to the lateral barrier or occupant retention barrier or bar . For example illustrates schematically a system to limit or prevent rearward movement of the wheelchair .

Once user of the wheelchair or other wheeled mobility device positions the wheelchair within the system or station the wheelchair is limited in movement on at least three sides front left and right and on four sides front left right and rear side in the case that a system such as system or connector is provided to limit or prevent rearward movement. System prevents excessive movement of the wheelchair in the event of quick decelerations stops sharp turns or quick accelerations. To exit system the user can for example activate switch to deploy one or more barriers of system in a powered manner for example using one or more electric motors hydraulic systems and or pneumatic systems or manually activate the system through the use of for example a torsion or other springs or counter balancing. Lateral barrier optional occupant restraint barrier or bar and any optional rearward stop or barrier system can for example be powered to transition to a stowed position upon activation of switch to allow for quick easy and independent exit from the station by the wheelchair user. A switch can for example be integrated with or in operative connection with the vehicle operator control system if a wheelchair occupant is unable to activate a local switch such as switch . A switch can also be integrated or incorporated into for example knee retention or abutment surface or member so that system is automatically activated when a wheelchair occupant enters system and contact is made with forward excursion barrier . In a number of embodiments no mechanical interconnections are required between containment system and any hardware on the wheelchair. The barriers of system can for example be in close proximity to the wheelchair and or the occupant thereof and constrain or restrict motion of the wheelchair and or the occupant via abutting contact.

The use of system can for example be independent of the driver of vehicle or any other assistant. Wheelchairs scooters and other wheeled mobility devices can simply roll into system without the need for assistance or the need for specially equipped wheelchairs scooters and other wheeled mobility devices. Although currently available systems such as automated docking systems or rear facing wheelchair passenger systems can sometimes provide user independence the devices systems and methods described herein are much simpler in design and implementation. Furthermore unlike such previous systems. the devices systems and methods described herein do not require the wheelchair user to face rearwards or to attach additional hardware to the wheelchair to allow independent securement. Still further the devices systems and methods described herein can also be used along with currently available four point tie down system.

Rear stop or barrier system such as connectors or systems and can be particularly useful in connection with wheelchairs that are manually propelled. The rear stop or barrier system may not be required for wheelchairs including reliable mechanical wheel brakes to prevent rolling of the wheelchair during the ride. However even in the case of a wheelchair with mechanical brakes a rear stop or barrier system can also be used to prevent or limit for example rearward sliding in for example the case of a quick deceleration of the vehicle .

Passive occupant retention or barrier provides the wheelchair passenger with additional safety during travel as compared to currently available occupant restraint systems which rely on belt type restraints for pelvic and upper torso restraint. Such belt systems are rarely used and wheelchair seated passengers often slide from their wheelchair seats onto the vehicle floor sustaining injury to lower and upper extremities. The devices systems and methods described herein make use of a simple occupant barrier or bar such as barrier which can for example include padded or energy absorbing abutment member strategically placed upon the front of occupant excursion barrier to limit or prevent the occupant from sliding forward in his her seat during a quick vehicle deceleration or stop. Occupant barrier can also be used to hold onto within reach of the wheelchair seated passenger and to provide postural support during for example a bumpy vehicle ride. Currently available systems do not provide hand holds that are within close proximity and in front of wheelchair seated occupants.

The foregoing description and accompanying drawings set forth representative embodiments. Various modifications additions and alternative designs will of course become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing teachings without departing from the scope hereof which is indicated by the following claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes and variations that fall within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

