---

title: Semantically guided report design
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for providing a set of placement options to a user when a new report object is requested to be placed in an area of the report are described herein. One or more existing report objects are associated with the area of the report. The set of placement options are determined based on at least one of the following: area type of the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed and a semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects. In one embodiment, the area of the report includes a sub-area. The set of placement options for a sub-area is determined based on the semantic relationship of new report objects and the existing report objects associated with the area and the sub-area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053176&OS=09053176&RS=09053176
owner: BUSINESS OBJECTS SOFTWARE LIMITED
number: 09053176
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20101214
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Chinese Patent Application 201010556986.2 filed on Nov. 24 2010 titled SEMANTICALLY GUIDED REPORT DESIGN which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments generally relate to computer systems and more particularly to methods and systems for providing a set of placement options for placing a new report object in an area of a report.

Business intelligence BI applications such as Crystal Reports by SAP provide a flexible platform for a user to create reports in real time. These tools allow a user to include new report objects in any area of the report. This allows the user to change the report according to their requirements.

A report includes one or more areas the one or more areas may contain one or more existing report objects. At present when a report designer places a new report object in any of the one or more areas the report designer is not aware whether this addition would maintain the semantic validity of report rendering. Specifically the report designer find it difficult to understand whether the combination of the new report object and the one or more report objects present in the same area of the report would preserve the validity of rendering.

Therefore a method that provides the user a set of semantically correct placement options when the user tries to place the new report object in an area of the report is desired. This would ensure semantically correct report rendering.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for providing a set of placement options when a new report object is requested to be placed in an area of a report are described herein. A request is received to place the new report object in the area of the report. A set of placement options are determined based on at least one of the following an area type and the semantic relationship between the new report object and one or more existing report objects associated with the area. The area type of the area is one of an iterative type and a static type. The set of placement options are provided based on the determination.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for providing a semantically guided report design are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Initially at block a request is received to place the new report object in an area of the report. In one exemplary embodiment the request is received from a user. In one embodiment the request is received through a user interface. In one embodiment the request is received to place the new report object in a sub area present within an area of the report. Each of the one or more existing report objects and the new report object may contain one or more data elements.

Next at block a set of placement options are determined. In one embodiment the set of placement options are determined based on at least one of the following an area type and semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed.

In one embodiment when the new report object is requested to be placed in a sub area present within an area the set of placement options are determined based on the area sub area type and the semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects associated with the sub area and the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the sub area is placed.

The area type may be either an iterative type or a static type. In one embodiment the area that has the area type as static is rendered by rendering the data elements associated with the report objects existing or new associated with the area. In one embodiment the area that has the area type as the iterative type are rendered by sequentially rendering the data elements contained in the report objects existing or new associated with the area.

The semantic relationship is either a one to one relationship or a one to many relationship. In a one to one relationship one entity is associated to one other entity. In a one to many relationship one entity is associated with a potential plurality of other entities. In one embodiment the semantic relationship is a one to one relationship when each data element of a new or existing report object corresponds to only a single data element of another existing or new report object. In one embodiment the semantic relationship is a one to many relationship when each data element of a new or existing report object corresponds to more than one data element of another existing or new report object.

In one embodiment the semantic relationship may be a direct relationship or a transitive relationship. A direct relationship exists between two existing report objects or between a new report object and an existing report object when each data element of an existing report object or a new report object has a direct one to one or one to many relationship with the one or more data elements of another existing report object or new report object. A transitive relationship exists between two report objects when each data element of an existing report object or a new report object does not have a direct relationship but has a relationship with the one or more data elements of another existing or new report object.

Finally the set of placement options determined in block are provided in block . In one embodiment the set of placement options are provided to a user. In one embodiment the set of placement options provide semantic guidance for placing the new report object in the area of the report. In one embodiment one of the placement options from the set of placement options is selected by a user. In one embodiment one of the placement options from the set of placement options is selected automatically. In one embodiment the set of placement options are provided on a user interface through which a user can select one of the placement options from the set of placement options.

The current state of the report includes information of the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. In one embodiment the information includes information of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed and the area type used for determination at block of the area. In one embodiment the area type is defined when the area is created in the report. As discussed above the area type may be either a static type or an iterative type.

In one embodiment the information included in the current state of the report includes an iteration key. Each area of the report that has the area type as the iterative type has an iteration key. In one embodiment the iteration key is initially empty when the area is created or added to the report e.g. when the area does not include an existing report object . The iteration key stores the one or more existing report objects associated with the area having the area type as the iterative type. In one embodiment the iteration key defines the sequence in which the one or more data elements of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area that has the area type as the iterative type are rendered during a rendering operation. In one embodiment the iteration key stores a value indicative of a type of sequence for rendering. In one embodiment the type of sequence may be one of the following alphabetically ascending alphabetically descending in an order defined by a memory that stores the one or more report objects associated with the one or more existing report objects or in a specific order. In one embodiment the specific order is stored in the iteration key the specific order defining an order in which the data elements are to be rendered.

In one embodiment a sub area present within an area of the report has an area type as the iterative type. The sub area of the report is initially empty when there are no report objects in the sub area. The iteration key of the sub area includes the one or more existing report objects associated with the sub area. In one embodiment the iteration key defines the sequence in which the one or more data elements of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area and the sub area are rendered during the rendering operation the area and the sub area having the area type as the iterative type.

Next at block the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed is stored in a data hull. In one embodiment the data hull is a collection of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. In one embodiment the data hull of the sub area includes a collection of the one or more existing report objects associated with the sub area and the one or more existing report objects associated with the area. In case the area within which the sub area is present is a sub area for another area i.e. a parent area of the area in which the sub area is present the data hull of the sub area would include a collection of the one or more existing report objects contained in the sub area the one or more existing report objects associated with the area and the one or more existing report objects associated with the parent area of the area. Thus the data hull of the sub area includes the one or more existing report objects of the sub area and the one or more existing report objects of all the parent areas until the top level of the sub area.

Finally at block the metadata is queried to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the one or more existing report objects stored in the data hull at block . As discussed above the data hull stores the one or more report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. The metadata retrieved in block is queried to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. In one embodiment when the new report object is requested to be placed in a sub area placed within an area the metadata is queried to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects associated with the sub area and the one or more existing report objects associated with the area within which the sub area is present.

Next in case the condition in block is false i.e. the area type is iterative then at block a determination is made whether the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the one or more existing report objects associated with the area is one to one. In one embodiment when the new report object is requested to be placed in a sub area placed within an area the determination at block is whether the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the one or more existing report objects associated with the sub area and the area in which the sub area is located is one to one. In case the condition in block is true i.e. the semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects is one to one the set of placement options for placing the new report object in the area of the report is determined as place as is block .

In case the condition in block is false i.e. the semantic relationship between the new report object and the one or more existing report objects is one to many then the set of placement options for placing the new report object in the area of the report are place and iterate place and aggregate and place and expand block .

Next at block the new report object is placed in the area or a sub area in case the received request is to place the new report object in the sub area of the report in which the new report object is requested to be placed. The new report object is placed along with the existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed.

Next at block the one or more data elements associated with the one or more existing report objects and the new report object are rendered based on the iteration key. Rendering may be performed in many ways such as by creating a file on a disk e.g. text file pdf file or an xls file a graphic on a computer screen a voice output or printing. In one embodiment the iteration key defines the sequence in which the one or more data elements are rendered during the rendering operation. In one embodiment when the new report object is requested to be placed in a sub area placed within an area the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the sub area and the iteration key of the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed.

Finally at block the rendered output obtained at block may optionally be displayed. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed when the report is rendered as a graphic on a computer screen. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed on a user interface.

Next at block the one or more data elements associated with each of the one or more existing report objects and the new report object are rendered based on the iteration key.

Finally at block the rendered output obtained at block may optionally be displayed. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed when the report is rendered as a graphic on a computer screen. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed on a user interface.

Next at block an aggregation value is calculated for the one or more data elements associated with the new report object based on an aggregation option selected from the set of aggregation options. For example suppose a new report object has five data elements and the aggregation option selected is count count of the data elements associated with the new report object then the aggregation value for the new report object is 5.

Next at block the aggregation value calculated in block is placed in the area or a sub area when the request is to place the new report object in the sub area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. In one embodiment when the request is to place the new report object in a sub area present within an area of the report the aggregation value calculated in block is placed in the sub area.

Next at block the one or more data elements associated with the one or more existing report objects and the aggregation value are rendered.

Finally at block the rendered output obtained at block may optionally be displayed. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed when the report is rendered as a graphic on a computer screen. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed on a user interface.

Next at block the new report object is added to the iteration key of the sub area. As discussed above the iteration key defines the sequence in which the one or more data elements of each of the report objects stored in the iteration key are rendered. In the present embodiment the sub area of the report is rendered by sequentially rendering the one or more data elements associated with the new report object. Next at block the new report object is placed in the sub area of the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed.

Next at block the one or more data elements associated with the one or more existing report objects and the new report object are rendered. In one embodiment when the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed has area type as the iterative type the one or more data elements associated with the one or more existing report objects and the new report object are rendered based on the iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area that includes the new report object . In one embodiment when the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed has area type as the static type the one or more data elements associated with the one or more existing report objects and the new report object are rendered based on the iteration key of the sub area.

Finally at block the rendered output obtained at block may optionally be displayed. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed when the report is rendered as a graphic on a computer screen. In one embodiment the rendered output is displayed on a user interface.

In one embodiment the existing report object and the existing report object include one or more data elements. The existing report object Count of Sales includes data element 10 000 the existing report object Country includes data elements Canada France and Germany.

The area has an area type as the static type and the area has an area type as the iterative type. As discussed above the area that has the area type as the static type is rendered by rendering the data elements i.e. existing report object Count of Sales associated with the area .

The area that has the area type as the static type is rendered by rendering the data element 10 000 of the existing report object Count of Sales associated with the area . In one embodiment the area is rendered by rendering the data element 10 000 of the existing report object Count of Sales .

The area that has the area type as the iterative type has an iteration key. The iteration key of the area stores the existing report object Country associated with the area . In one embodiment the iteration key defines the sequence in which the data elements of the existing report object Country are rendered during the rendering operation. The data elements Canada France and Germany of the existing report object Country are rendered sequentially and repeatedly based on the iteration key. In an exemplary embodiment initially data element Canada existing report object Country is rendered followed by data element France existing report object Country and finally data element Germany existing report object Country is rendered.

As discussed above in block of initially the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed in the area of the report . The new report object Country Population has data elements M M and M. In existing systems the report designer does not understands whether placing the new report object Country Population in the area of the report along with the existing report object Country would preserve the validity of rendering of the report . This would cause the rendered output of the report to be semantically incorrect.

The present invention solves this problem by providing semantic guidance to the report designer for placing the new report object Country Population in the area of the report . In one embodiment the semantic guidance is based on a semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country . The semantic guidance provided to the report designer ensures that the report rendered after placement of the new report object Country Population in the area of the report is semantically correct.

Next a current state of the report and a metadata associated with the existing report object Country and the new report object Country Population is retrieved block . The current state of the report includes information of the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed. The information of the area includes information of the existing report object Country associated with the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed and the area type of the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed. As discussed above the area type is iterative type.

The metadata includes a semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country . The semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country is one to one as each data element of the existing report object Country i.e. Canada France and Germany has a single corresponding data element in the new report object Country Population .

The existing report object Country is stored in a data hull of the area block . Next the metadata is queried to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country associated with the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed block . As discussed above the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country is one to one.

Next a set of placement options are determined for placing the new report object Country Population in the area of the report block . The set of placement options are determined based on at least one of the area type i.e. iterative type and the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country . In the present embodiment the area type of the area is iterative type and the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and the existing report object Country is one to one therefore the set of placement options determined for placing the new report object Country Population in the area of the report is place as is blocks and block .

Next the set of placement options are provided based on the determination block . illustrates the set of placement options being provided for placing the new report object Country Population in the area of the report of according to an embodiment. As shown the set of placement option provided is place as is . In one embodiment the set of placement options are provided on a user interface. In one embodiment the set of placement options are provided to a user on a user interface.

In one embodiment when the place as is is selected a determination is made whether the iteration key of the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed is empty block . The iteration key of the area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed stores the existing report object Country i.e. is not empty . Therefore the new report object Country Population is not added to the iteration key of the area block .

The new report object Country Population is then placed in the area of the report block . illustrates the new report object Country Population placed in the area of the report according to an embodiment. As shown the new report object Country Population is placed along with the existing report object Country in the area of the report .

Finally the data elements of the existing report object Country and the new report object Country Population are rendered based on the iteration key of the area block . illustrates the rendering of the report of when the selected placement option is place as is according to an embodiment. As the area has the area type as iterative type the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the area . As discussed above the iteration key of the area includes the existing report object Country . The report is rendered by sequentially rendering the data elements Canada France and Germany associated with the existing report object Country stored in the iteration key. In one embodiment the iteration key defines the sequence in which the data elements of the report objects existing report object Country stored in the iteration key are rendered. As shown in initially the first data element Canada of the existing report object Country and the corresponding data element M of the new report object Country Population are rendered. Next the second data element France existing report object Country and the corresponding data element M new report object Country Population are rendered. Finally the data element Germany existing report object Country and the corresponding data element M new report object Country Population are rendered.

Initially a request is received to place the new report object Country Population in the sub area that has the existing report object Region block . As discussed above the existing report object Country has data elements Canada France and Germany. The existing report object Region has data elements BC ON IdF and BW. The abbreviations respectively stand for British Columbia Ontario le de France and Baden W rttemberg. The new report object Country Population has data elements M M and M. The area and the sub area have area type as iterative type. The area has an iteration key that stores the existing report object Country associated with the area . The sub area has an iteration key that stores the existing report object Region associated with the sub area .

Next a current state of the report and a metadata associated with the existing report object Country existing report object Region and new report object Country Population is retrieved block . In one embodiment the current state of the report includes information of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed and the area in which the sub area is present. The information includes information of the existing report object Region associated with the sub area the existing report object Country associated with the area and the area type of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed.

In one embodiment the metadata includes the semantic relationship between the existing report object Region and the existing report object Country and between the new report object Country Population and each of the existing report object Region and the existing report object Country . The new report object Country Population has a direct one to one relationship with the existing report object Country and a transitive one to one relationship with the existing report object Region . The existing report object Country has a one to many relationship with the existing report object Region as a single data element of the existing report object Country is related to one or more data elements of the existing report object Region .

A data hull of the sub area stores the existing report object Region associated with the sub area and the existing report object Country associated with the area in which the sub area is placed block . Next the metadata is queried to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and each of the existing report objects stored in the data hull of the sub area block .

Next a set of placement options are determined for placing the new report object Country Population in the sub area based on at least one of the following the area type of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed and the semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and each of the existing report object Region and the existing report object Country . The area type of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed is iterative type. The semantic relationship between the new report object Country Population and each of the existing report object Region and the existing report object Country is one to one therefore the set of placement options determined is place as is. block and block .

Next the set of placement options are provided based on the determination block . In one embodiment the set of placement options are provided to a user on a user interface. illustrates the set of placement options being provided for placing the new report object Country Population in the sub area of the report of according to an embodiment. As shown the set of placement options provided for placing the new report object Country Population in the sub area is place as is .

In one embodiment when the selected placement option is place as is a determination is made whether the iteration key of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed is empty block . In the present embodiment the iteration key of the sub area in which the new report object Country Population is requested to be placed includes the existing report object Region i.e. is not empty . Therefore the new report object Country Population is not added to the iteration key of the sub area block .

The new report object Country Population is then placed in the sub area of the report block . illustrates the new report object Country Population placed in the sub area of the report according to an embodiment. As shown the new report object Country Population is placed along with the existing report object Region in the sub area of the report .

Finally the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area block . illustrates rendering of the report of when the selected placement option is place as is according to an embodiment. The iteration key of the area stores the existing report object Country . The iteration key of the sub area stores the existing report object Region . In one embodiment the iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area define the sequence in which the data elements of the existing report object Country and the existing report object Region are rendered. Initially the first data element Canada of the existing report object Country is rendered. Next the data element BC of the existing report object Region and M of the new report object Country Population corresponding to the data element Canada existing report object Country are rendered. Next the data element ON of the existing report object Region and the data element M of the new report object Country Population corresponding to the data element Canada are rendered.

Next the second data element France of the existing report object Country is rendered. After rendering the second data element France the data element IdF existing report object Region and the data element M new report object Country Population corresponding to the data element France are rendered.

Next the last data element Germany of the existing report object Country is rendered. Finally the last data elements BW existing report object Region and M new report object Country Population corresponding to the data element Germany are rendered.

Finally the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area block . The iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area define the sequence in which the data elements included in the existing report object Country associated with the area and the existing report object Region associated with the sub area are rendered.

As shown initially the first data element Canada of the existing report object Country is rendered. Next the data elements of the existing report object Region and the corresponding data elements of the new report object GovOffice are rendered. As shown the first data element BC existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Water new report object GovOffice . Next the first data element BC existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Agriculture new report object GovOffice . As discussed above the iteration key of the sub area includes the existing report object Region and the new report object GovOffice . The iteration key defines the sequence in which the data elements of the report objects stored in the iteration key are rendered. Therefore as shown here the data element BC existing report object Region that has two corresponding data elements Water and Agriculture in the new report object GovOffice is first rendered with data element Water and then with data element Agriculture. Next the second data element ON existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Water new report object GovOffice .

After rendering the data elements of existing report object Region and new report object GovOffice corresponding to the data element Canada existing report object Country the second data element France is rendered. Next the data element IdF existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Water new report object GovOffice .

Next the last data element Germany is rendered. Finally the data elements of the existing report object Region and new report object GovOffice corresponding to the Germany are rendered. As shown the first data element BW existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Water new report object GovOffice and finally the data element BW existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element Agriculture new report object GovOffice .

Finally the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the area iteration key of the sub area and the iteration key of the sub area block . illustrates the rendering of the report of according to an embodiment. The iteration key of the area sub area and sub area define the sequence in which the data elements included in the existing report object Country existing report object Region and the new report object GovOffice are rendered during the rendering operation. The iteration key of the area includes the existing report object Country . The iteration key of the sub area includes the existing report object Region and the iteration key of the sub area includes the new report object GovOffice . As shown initially the first data element Canada of the existing report object Country is rendered. Next the first data element BC of the existing report object Region corresponding to the data element Canada existing report object Country is rendered. Next the data elements Water and Agriculture new report object GovOffice corresponding to the data element BC existing report object Region are rendered sequentially. Next the second data element ON of the existing report object Region corresponding to the data element Canada existing report object Country is rendered followed by the rendering of the data element Water new report object GovOffice corresponding to the data element ON existing report object Region .

Next the second data element France of the existing report object Country is rendered followed by the rendering of the data element IdF existing report object Region corresponding to the data element France existing report object Country . Next the data element Water new report object GovOffice corresponding to the data element IdF existing report object Region is rendered.

Next the third data element Germany of the existing report object Country is rendered followed by the rendering of the data element BW existing report object Region corresponding to the data element Germany. Finally the data elements Water and Agriculture new report object GovOffice corresponding to the existing report object Region BW are rendered sequentially.

As shown above the data elements of each of the report objects Country Region and City are being rendered sequentially as the report is being rendered based on the iteration key of the area that stores the existing report object Country the iteration key of the sub area that stores the existing report object Region and the iteration key of the sub area that stores the new report object GovOffice .

Next an aggregation value Count of GovOffice is calculated for the data elements Water Agriculture Water Water Water and Agriculture of the new report object GovOffice based on the selected aggregation option Count block . As shown in the received requested is to place the new report object GovOffice in the sub area of the report . The sub area includes an existing report object Region . The Count of GovOffice is calculated for each data element of the existing report object Region . As shown in the first data element BC of the existing report object Region has two corresponding data elements Water Agriculture in the new report object GovOffice. Therefore the Count of GovOffice 1 for the data element BC is 2. Similarly the data element ON existing report object Region has one corresponding data element Water new report object GovOffice therefore the Count of GovOffice for data element BC is 1. The data element IdF existing report object Region has one corresponding data element Water new Report Object GovOffice therefore the Count of GovOffice for the data element IdF is 1. The data element BW of the existing report object Region has two corresponding data elements Water Agriculture in the new report object GovOffice and therefore the Count of GovOffice for the data element BW is 2. Based on the above calculations the aggregation value Count of GovOffice has data elements 2 1 1 and 2 .

Finally the data elements included in the existing report objects existing report object Country and existing report object Region and the calculated aggregation value Count of GovOffice is rendered block . The report is rendered based on the iteration key of the area and the iteration key of the sub area . illustrates rendering of the report of according to an embodiment. As shown in initially the first data element Canada of the existing report object Country is rendered. Next the data elements of the existing report object Region corresponding to the data element Canada existing report object Country are rendered along with the corresponding data elements of Count of GovOffice . As shown the data element BC existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element 2 Count of GovOffice . Next the data element ON existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element 1 Count of GovOffice .

Next the second data element France existing report object Country is rendered followed by the rendering of the data elements of the existing report object Region corresponding to the data element France. As shown the data element IdF existing report object Region is rendered along with the corresponding data element 1 Count of GovOffice .

Finally the last data element Germany existing report object Country is rendered followed by the rendering of the data element BW existing report object Region and the corresponding data element 2 Count of GovOffice .

Finally the report is rendered based on the iteration key of the sub area block . The iteration key of the sub area defines the sequence in which the data elements of the new report object City are rendered. The iteration key of the sub area includes the new report object City. The data element Canada existing report object Selected Country is rendered once followed by the rendering of each of the data elements of the new report object City .

Next an aggregation value Count of City is calculated for the data elements Victoria Vancouver Ottawa Toronto and Montreal of the new report object City based on a selected aggregation option Count block . As there are five data elements in the new report object City the Count of City is 5.

Next the calculated aggregation value Count of City is placed in the area block . illustrates the report of when a placement option is selected from the set of placement options according to an embodiment. As shown in the aggregation value Count of City that has data element is placed in the area along with the existing report object Selected Country .

Finally the data element Canada of the existing report object Selected Country and the aggregation value Count of City are rendered block . illustrates rendering of the report when the selected placement option is place and aggregate according to an embodiment. As shown in the data element Canada existing Report Object Selected Country is rendered along with the aggregation value 5 Count of City .

The system includes a memory for storing a metadata. The metadata includes a semantic relationship between all the existing report objects and between the new report object and each of the existing report objects. The semantic relationship between all the existing report objects and each of the one or more existing report objects is either a one to one relationship or a one to many relationship.

The report includes a current state of the report . The current state of the report includes information of the area where the new report object is requested to be placed. The information of the area includes the information about the one or more existing report objects associated with the area. In case the area where the new report object is being placed is a sub area present within an area the information about the area includes information about all the report objects associated with the sub area and all the report objects associated with the area of the sub area. The current state of the report also includes information about the area type of the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed.

The processor then queries the metadata to obtain the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the existing report objects associated with the area in which the new report object is requested to be placed. The processor then determines a set of placement options based on at least one of the following the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the existing report object and the area type of the area where the next report object is requested to be placed.

The processor determines the set of placement options as place as is when the area type of the area is the iterative type and the semantic relationship between the new report object and each of the existing report objects is one to one. The processor determines the set of placement options as place and iterate place and aggregate and place and expand when the area type of the area is iterative type and the semantic relationship between the new report object and any one of the existing report objects is one to many. The processor determines the set of placement options as place and aggregate and place and expand when the area type is static.

The user interface provides the set of placement options determined by the processor to the user . In one embodiment the user selects one of the placement options from the set of placement options displayed on the user interface . The processor finally renders the report based on the user selected placement option from the set of placement options.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

