---

title: System, method and computer program product for assessing risk of identity theft
abstract: In one embodiment, this invention analyzes demographic data that is associated with a specific street address when presented as an address change on an existing account or an address included on a new account application when that address is different from the reference address (e.g., a credit bureau type header data). The old or reference address and the new address, the new account application address or fulfillment address demographic attributes are gathered, analyzed, compared for divergence and scaled to reflect the relative fraud risk.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08352281&OS=08352281&RS=08352281
owner: ID Insight Incorporated
number: 08352281
owner_city: Arden Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100412
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 679 076 filed on Oct. 30 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 423 298 filed on Nov. 1 2002 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to apparatuses and methods for identifying account fraud. In particular this invention relates to detecting fraud and assisting in fraud prevention due to identity theft including to but not limited to address change account takeover fraud and new account application fraud. In addition this invention may be practiced using batch or real time online processing or using customer hosted software applications.

Numerous businesses such as financial institutions department stores fulfillment businesses on line business and businesses making sales over the telephone face the challenge of protecting the business from customers attempting to defraud it. These businesses regularly handle thousands of accounts from its users or consumers. Such accounts may include instant credit or credit accounts with a department store or other retail outlet or accounts involving checks credit cards debit cards or ATM cards of a bank credit or other financial institution.

Identity theft may include account takeover wherein a thief steals the identity of an individual and then uses that information to take over ownership of that individual s account or new account fraud wherein the identity thief uses stolen information to open new accounts in another person s name.

Conventional methods for detecting identity theft when opening new accounts or for modifying existing accounts may be problematic. Currently to detect identity theft type fraud businesses have used negative databases of suspicious addresses like mail receiving agents or known fraud addresses. This method is useful only if there is known negative information. Often delivery addresses are not included in a negative database.

In the case of new account application fraud contemporary detection methods focus on the verification of data elements that are ascertainable by the criminal. These approaches seek to verify the identity of the new account applicant based on the information that is provided in the application process. There are typically three methodologies used in the new account verification process. First businesses check negative file resources to see whether there is negative information associated with a data element e.g. the provided social security number belongs to a deceased person. Second businesses attempt to verify the applicant s identity through the use of matching those application data elements to independent data sources which often only serve to corroborate the stolen information that the crook is using. Third there are logical references like does the driver s license number fit the format from the issuing state These techniques are generally used for both in and out of wallet solutions. Out of Wallet verification adds a level of complexity to the criminal enterprise through the presentation questions based on data not typically stored in a wallet or purse. For instance asking a person to provide a the maiden name of his her mother.

As recognized by the present inventors what is needed is a system method and computer program product for detecting identity fraud theft using a method that may either supplant or complement some of the methods discussed above. There is a further need for a system method and computer program that identifies both account takeover identity theft and new account identity theft.

In light of the above and according to one broad aspect of one embodiment of the invention disclosed herein is a system and methods for detecting fraud in account requests such as requests for new accounts requests for change of address of existing accounts and requests for media such as bank checks duplicate credits cards ATM cards debit cards past financial statements and the like. In one example embodiments of the present invention may utilize demographic data based on addresses associated with the account to determine whether an account request may involve identity theft fraud and scores may be generated indicating the likelihood that the account request may involve identity theft fraud.

In one embodiment this invention analyzes demographic data that is associated with a specific street address when presented as an address change on an existing account or an address included on a new account application when that address is different from the reference address e.g. a credit bureau type header data . The old or reference address and the new address the new account application address or fulfillment address demographic attributes are gathered analyzed compared for divergence and scaled to reflect the relative fraud risk.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for assessing a risk of fraud. The method comprises receiving at least information relating to a first address relating to one of an account holder or an applicant receiving information relating to a second address and measuring demographic differences between the first and second addresses.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for assessing a risk of identity theft fraud with respect to new applications. The method comprises receiving first address information relating to an applicant for an account and using demographic data relating to the address information.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for detecting a risk of identity theft fraud. The method comprises combining warm address known fraud address information USPS Deliverable Address File NCOA files with address specific single point demographic information and coupling differential information relating to the addresses to predict a risk of fraud for at least one of account takeover new account application and fulfillment fraud.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a system for assessing a risk of fraud. The system includes a processor memory computer instructions operable by the processor to append data to at least one variable used in assessing a risk of identity theft fraud computer instructions operable by the processor to analyze differences in demographic data for two different street address computer instructions operable by the processor to calculate a score indicative of a level of risk of fraud and computer instructions operable by the processor to output an assessment of a risk of level of fraud. In calculating the score the formula used is of the form 112233 where Y is the dependent or outcome variable is the result used to predict the risk of identity theft fraud A is a constant value B1 . . . Bn are the coefficients or weights assigned to the independent variables and x1 . . . xn are the independent variables.

The present invention generally relates to a system and method for detecting or assessing the risk of identity theft fraud. The present invention will be described in the context of detecting or assessing the risk of identity theft fraud in two contexts new account application fraud and account takeover fraud. However the present invention is not limited to only detecting these type of fraud schemes.

One advantage to the present invention s use of address information is that an address is the one element that a criminal cannot manipulate. That is when a criminal steals an identity the criminal may be able to obtain identity information relating to the victim. However the criminal cannot receive mail at the victim s house. Consequently the criminal needs to use an address where he she can receive mail e.g. to obtain media or goods . As such the present invention compares addresses. The present invention recognizes that there are demographic differences between addresses. For instance one address may have an upscale socio economic demographic as compared to the other address that has a more downscale socio economic demographic. By using street address information as the basis for gathering comparing and analyzing demographic data the present invention uses elements that can be independently verified and analyzed to determine a risk of identity theft. Also in addition to the demographic data additional data elements such as warm address information or undeliverable address information may be used to assist in assessing the risk of identity theft fraud. Within the context of this document Account as used in this application includes its ordinary meaning and is also intended to cover any business relationship where there is financial risk on part of the product or service provider including but not limited to relationships of credit debit brokerage retail non face to face fulfillment activities e.g. on line sales .

In general the risk assessment is performed when a business or service user sends transmits the old or reference address and the new requested changed or new account application address with other identifying information for use by the software application embodying the present invention. Input data is matched to address specific demographic data which in turn is delivered to the decision engine to produce a risk score. Data processing can occur in batch real time online or on customer or processor hosted software application. Communications can occur through telephone data line internet or tape disk or other commercially available method. The application output may be returned to the service user via an internet accessed system telephone data line or other commercially available method.

In general the present invention uses statistical modeling of negative and demographic socio economic data elements associated with a street address to identify suspected identity theft fraud activity when there is a change in address or an address on a new application that is different from a reference address e.g. one provided by the applicant or one obtained from a third party such as a credit bureau . As such this invention may be used to detect identity theft fraud in existing accounts new credit account applications or other business risks associated with address manipulation. The process generally analyzes the differences in demographic data between an old address or reference address and an address on a new application or an address change on an account to a new address. If a reference address is not provided by the new applicant or is not the address that was changed to a new address then a reference address may be a credit bureau header data or an address secured from a third party database. Additionally other negative and logical data sources are used in the risk evaluation such as warm address information driver s license syntax specific to a state or the year a social security number is issued is compared to the date of birth for rationality. Analysis may performed through the use of regression models neural network and expert rules based technology. A score that scales risk is developed to identify the likelihood of identity theft fraud. The score is returned along with supportive investigative data to the customer business for use in determining the level of risk it is willing to take in entering into a business relationship with the investigated person. Consequently an embodiment of the present invention provides businesses with the opportunity investigate a potential identity theft fraud and take steps to prevent economic loss. As will be discussed in the preferred embodiment the present invention is implemented in software.

Referring to the method for detecting new account application fraud will be described. illustrates an example of logical operations for detecting fraud in the context of receiving a new account request. As shown in block a new request is received including the client data and the received data is reformatted normalized or otherwise processed so that the data can be further processed. An input data stream or data inputs from the client customer are delivered to the host system for processing. Examples of the type of message elements or data inputs include the following 

However depending on the implementation not all of the data elements need to be sent by the client. In one embodiment for assessing risk of new account application identity theft fraud input data includes name and address listed on the new application. In one embodiment for assessing risk of account takeover identity theft fraud input data includes name current address or reference address and the address to which it was changed.

In general information that may be provided by a business that wants an assessment of risk of identity theft may provide the type of transaction e.g. new application change of address etc. information to identify the person that is to be investigated e.g. name social security number date of birth etc. address information as will be discussed with reference to account information and whether there has been a media request e.g. a request for checks credit cards PIN number or other items of value .

In the account take over situation usually there is an address change to a new address. The current address prior to the address change may be referred to as the old address the reference address or the FROM address. The new address i.e. the address that the reference address was changed to is sometimes referred to as the TO address. Similarly in the new application situation the reference address is the old address or FROM address. It may be provided by the applicant or it may be obtained from a third party such as a credit bureau. Also in the new application address provided on the new application may be referred to as the new address or TO address.

Usually in the takeover situation because of the address change the business that is going to have an assessment made of the risk of identity theft fraud has an old address or reference address and a new address. In the new application situation usually a business that is going to have assessment made will have the address stated on the application but may not have a reference address. It is more common to use a third party source to obtain a reference address for analysis of a risk of identity theft in a new application situation. However the present invention may be used when in a new application situation a reference address is provided by the business that wants to analyze the applicant for identity theft fraud. Some of the information provided by the business in requesting an analysis for the risk of identity theft is to provide other information such as a social security number to assist in obtaining information a reference address for the person named on the application from a third party source.

An embodiment of the present invention uses an input data stream from the client customer in a processing scenario or delivers required data inputs to the customer hosted software application. As shown above data inputs for account takeover may include a customer name account number and the old or FROM address and new or TO address. As shown above new account application input data may include name institutional reference number reference address and application addresses. If the reference address is not available a third party address database will be consulted. Emergency Over night replacement processing inputs may include name address account or reference number account type and open to buy available credit balance.

As will be described input data is compared against the warm address known fraud data USPS deliverable Address File and the NCOA files. The outcomes of these comparisons are appended to the inquiry record. The inquiry is then matched to the demographic data file and appended to the inquiry record. The inquiry record is written to the inquiry log.

At block a determination is made as to whether a reference address is present. If a reference address is provided in the client data then such address is also standardized block . Otherwise a reference address is appended to the data received block . If the reference address is not available a third party address database may be consulted. For instance the reference address may be obtained from a credit bureau and appended to the data received. Then the appended reference address is standardized block 

In one embodiment if the reference address and the new account application address are the same the inquiry will be logged to an inquiry database and no further action will be taken. In another embodiment if the reference address and the new account application address are the same the inquiry will be logged to an inquiry database and the address will be checked to make sure it is not a warm address or that it is not an undeliverable address. Also when the address on a new application matches the reference address then the business may not want the analysis conducted.

If there is a difference between the new account application address and the reference address then additional information such as the information that will be described with respect to blocks and will be appended to both addresses block . All information is appended to both the reference address and to the address provided in the application block . In one embodiment the information appended includes demographic data block U.S. postal service data block other data previous history file data block client fraud data block received from a particular client and address velocity data block .

With respect to a brief description of the logical operations performed in determining the data appended from demographic data block . In selecting demographic data to append to an address first an attempt is made to match the name and address block . If there is a match then the demographic data is the appended from that file. However if there is not a match for both name and address then there is an attempt made to match the address. If a match is made then the demographic data for the address is appended. Also for the area defined by a Zip 4 or Zip code 4 a demographic data for that area is appended. For instance if information related to length of residence was being appended to each address then first a search would be made to match the name and address to the file containing such information. If a match is made the length of residence data from that file would be appended. If such a match is not made then an attempt would be made to match the address only. If there is a match then the length of residence for the last person at the address would be appended. Also the length of residence for the residences in the Zip 4 would be appended or an average of the length of residences for the residences in the Zip 4 would be appended .

Demographic data may come from a number of national databases. Such data is compiled by companies such as Experian Equifax InfoUSA and Acxiom. These databases include publicly available demographic data from sources such as vehicle registration data county assessor information warranty cards and department of motor vehicle data among other sources. These databases may be accessed to obtain demographic data information. As shown in demographic data appended to the addresses as shown in block may include appending demographic data related to income block demographic census data block demographic data relating to housing characteristics block and data relating to household membership characteristics. Example of such data include 

Similarly as shown in United States Postal Service data appended to each address as shown in block may include application of Zip code 4 address standardization programs block national change of address block delivery point validation and service block locatable address conversion system block NES Nixie block delivery sequence file block and deceased pandering and suppression files block . The deliverable address file and the national change of address file are searched to match the address. Examples of the delivery validation file and the national change of address file is as follows 

Continuing to refer to other data may be appended to these addresses block . Other data may include information from warm address files comprising high risk addresses like mail receiving agents jails prisons hotels and the like block . Warm address file components may include 

Usually an attempt is made to match the address to an address in the warm address file. If there is a match then in one embodiment the type e.g. a description on the place where the mail would be delivered such as a prison of address would be appended.

Other data may include non client fraud address files comprising third party sourced fraud address records block . Other data may further include Department of Justice county level crime statistics that scale the geographic propensity to crime frequency. Other similar information may be appended to the addresses. This information may be search to match an address and append the information if there is a match.

Also as shown in any data from a client fraud file may be appended to the addresses block . This data may be contributed by the business making the request block . That is the business provides fraud address data records. An example of such a record is as follows 

These records may be from on line case management system that have stored accessible addresses for confirmed fraud incidents. This information will be used in the process for determining a risk of fraud which may be indicated by a score.

Also information is derived relating to inquiry activity relating to both new address and the reference addresses. This information is stored and updated in an address velocity file. Information is appended to the addresses relating to frequency of inquiries. block . Also a previous history file is reviewed for information relating to the new application and reference addresses. This information may be appended to the addresses block . This previous history file includes previously scored addresses. This file may include date of scoring address scored and the score. This file may be updated to reflect any scoring performed on an address. False positive rates are improved through the use of warm address data customer maintained known fraud address file coupled with the U.S. Postal Service National Change of Address Database These data sources will be used in the score development process.

As shown in once information has been appended to the addresses then a score is created based on all the data block . Generally statistical models are used to derive a score which is used to predict the risk of fraud. At block a score is created based on the data associated with the request and the appended data. shows the logical operations for determining a score in accordance with one embodiment of the present embodiment. As shown is as shown in block the first step is to analyze the demographic data appended to each of the addresses and derive information used to predict the risk of fraud. Next as shown in block a score is calculated based on the weights placed for each of the selected variables. In one embodiment of the present invention the following variables have been selected to be used in the model to predict the risk of fraud 1 a variable that is based on the change in the financial make up of the two addresses 2 a variable that identifies records that were confirmed through third party data to match the name at a given address 3 a variable that is based on the home value between the two addresses 4 a variable that is based on the distance of the move for the change of address 5 a variable that is based on whether the type of housing e.g. apartment non apartment single family home has changed for the current address in comparison with the reference address or old address 6 a variable that is based on whether the application address or the new address is a building i.e. not an apartment or a home rather something other than an apartment or a home 7 a variable based on whether the new application address the new address or current address is a warm address 8 a variable that is based on the difference in internet usages for the Zipcode 4 area for the two addresses and 9 a variable that is based on the average length of stay at the residence at the Zip 4 area code for the reference address or the old address when there is an address change requested . Then the second step is to use the model to obtain a score to predict the risk of fraud. Each of these variables will be discussed in turn.

The first variable is based on the change in the financial make up of the two addresses. In one embodiment of this model this variable is called Value1. This variable analyzes the change in the financial make up of the reference address the old address e.g. in address change or account takeover situations or FROM address e.g. old address and new application address the new address or the TO address e.g. the address to which it has been changed . It is a composite of three demographic variables Income Net Worth and Home Ownership. In one embodiment to derive the composite information the following steps are used. First the difference in income is determined. As described with respect to to determine the difference in income for both addresses e.g. new application address and reference address in risk of fraud relating to a new application or as will be described later reference or old and new addresses in a takeover situation income for the respective address is appended by matching name and address to the appropriate demographic file. If there is not a match by both name and address then a search is made to match at by address only to find income. If there is not a match by address only then the Zip 4 for an address is used and the average income for that Zip 4 is appended to the address. If there is still not a match then the mean income for all individuals is assigned. For instance the mean income for all individuals may be assigned when a Zip 4 for a particular address cannot be determined or when demographic data cannot be located for the address of a Zip 4 area.

Once a value has been appended to each address for income then the difference in income between the two addresses is calculated using the following formula  INCOME INCOME FROM INCOME TO 

Where DF INCOME refers to the difference in income between the two addresses INCOME FROM refers income appended to the reference address or old address and INCOME TO refers to income appended to new application address or the new address.

Next the difference in net worth ranking is constructed. To determine the difference in net worth for both addresses net worth ranking is appended by first trying to match by name and address to the demographic file. If a match is not found then match by address only is attempted to find net worth ranking. If there is still no match then a match is made to the Zip 4 of the address and the average net worth ranking for that Zip 4 is appended. If there is still no match then the mean net worth ranking for all individuals is appended to the address. For instance as with income the mean net work ranking for all individuals may be appended when a Zip 4 for a particular address cannot be determined or when demographic data cannot be located for the address of a Zip 4 area.

Once a net worth value has been appended for both addresses then the difference in net worth between the two addresses is calculated as follows  NETWR NETWR FROM NETWR TO 

DF  NETWR refers to the difference in net worth. NETWR FROM refers to the net worth of the reference address or old address and NETWR TO refers to the net worth of the new application address or the new address.

Next the difference in homeownership is constructed. In order to determine the difference in homeownership for both addresses a homeowner indicator is appended to both addresses by matching name and address to the appropriate demographic file. If there is not match then a homeowner indicator is appended by matching by address only to find homeowner indicator. If there is still no match the average homeownership percentage for that Zip 4 is appended. If there is still no match the mean homeowner percentage for all individuals is assigned. For instance as with income the mean homeowner percentage for all individuals may be appended when a Zip 4 for a particular address cannot be determined or when demographic data cannot be located for the address of a Zip 4 area.

Once we have a value for both the FROM and TO address we then calculate the difference between the FROM and TO address as follows  HOMEON HOMEON FROM HOMEON TO 

Where DF HOMEON refers to the difference in homeownership HOMEON FROM refers to homeownership for reference address or old address and HOMEON TO refers to homeownership for the new application address or new address.

Once the three difference for the income net worth and homeownership have been calculated then a variable that is a combination of the three is created 

The numerical values are derived from a statistical analysis using known methods of actual identity theft fraud data which was used to build this model.

The next variable identifies records that were confirmed through third party data to match the name at a given address. This variable is titled MATCH. If a match is found to the third party database demographics via name and address this variable is coded as a value of 1. If it is not confirmed it is coded as a 0.

The next variable is based on the home value between the two addresses. To determine the value for this variable an analysis of the change in the home value is performed. This variable is named DF HOMVL. In one embodiment the difference between the home value of the FROM address e.g. reference address in a new application situation or the old address in takeover situations and the TO address e.g. the new application address in a new application or a new address in takeover situations . For both the FROM and TO address a home value is appended by matching by name and address to the appropriate demographic file. If there is not a match then the home value is appended based on a match by address only. If there is still no match then the average home value for that Zip 4 of the address is appended. If there is still no match then the mean home value for all individuals is appended. Once we have a value for home value for both the FROM and TO address we calculate the difference between the FROM and TO address as follows  HOMVL HOMEVAL FROM HOMEVAL TO 

Where DF  HOMVL is the difference in home value HOMEVAL FROM refers to the home value of the address prior in time to the one reflected as the address in a new application or in a change of address and HOMEVAL TO refers to the address on the new application form as the current address or the new address provided in changing the address.

The next variable in the model is based on the distance of the move for the change of address. This variable is named DF DISTN. In one embodiment this variable measures the distance of the move for the change of address. Using the delivery point for both the FROM and TO address we then determine the longitude and latitude of the delivery point. We then calculate the distance of the move as follows  DIST69.1 TO Latitude FROM Latitude  DIST69.1 TO Longitude FROM longitude COS FROM latitude 57.3  DIST SQRTRDF  DIST DIST  DIST DIST 

Where DF  DISTX refers to the change in latitude from the TO and FROM addresses multiplied by 69.1 DF  DISTY refers to the change in longitude from the TO and FROM addresses multiplied by the cos of the latituted of the FROM address divided by 57.3 all of which is multiplied by 69.1 and DF DISTN is calculated by the square root of the sum of the squares of DF DISTX and DF DISTY. The mathematical calculation is a known formula for converting latitudinal and longitudinal information into a distance.

The next variable is based on whether the type of housing e.g. apartment non apartment single family home has changed for the current address in comparison with the reference address or old address. This variable is called HOMAPT. In one embodiment this variable indicates whether or not a person has moved from a non apartment to an apartment. In one embodiment if the FROM address is not an apartment and the TO address is an apartment this variable is coded as a 1. Otherwise this variable is coded as a 0.

The next variable is based on whether the new application address or the new address is a building. This variable is named BLDNG. This variable indicates whether or not the TO address is a building. In the model If the TO Address is a Building this variable is coded as a 1. Otherwise this variable is coded as a 0.

The next variable is based on whether the new application address the new address or current address is a warm address. In short this variable indicates if the second address is warm . Warm addresses are addresses that are non standard delivery addresses. This type of address includes addresses such as UPS Stores Mail Boxes Etc. hotels motels etc. The variable is named WARMADD. In the model if a match is made by TO the address to the Warm Address file this variable is coded as a 1. Otherwise this variable is coded as a 0.

The next variable is based on the difference in internet usages for the Zipcode 4 area sometimes also referred to as Zip 4 for the two addresses. In one embodiment this variable measures the difference in internet usage for the area defined by Zip 4 for the FROM address to the area defined by the Zip 4 for the TO address. This variable is named Z4 WEB. In one embodiment this information is derived as follows. First the average internet usage is calculated for the Zip 4 area for both the FROM address and the TO address. This data is resident on the demographic file where a value of 1 indicates lowest likelihood of internet usage and 9 indicates the highest. Then the average value for all addresses in the specific Zip 4 area is calculated. Once the value for each the FROM and TO addresses is determined the difference variable is coded as follows 4 WEB WEBUSE FROM WEBUSE TO 

Where Z4 WEB refers to the difference is web usages for the area defined by the Zip 4 for each of the addresses WEBUSE FROM refers to the average internet usage for area defined by the Zip 4 for the FROM address e.g. the reference address in a new application situation or the old address in a takeover situation and WEBUSE TO refers to the average internet usage for the Zip 4 for the area defined by the TO address e.g. the new application address or the new address in the takeover situation . While average internet usage is used as the measure other measures such as median internet usage may be used in the appropriate model.

The last variable used in this embodiment of the model is based on the average length of stay at the residence at the Zip 4 area code for the reference address or the old address when there is an address change requested . This variable is named Z4 LORF. In one embodiment this variable measures the average length of residence for the area defined by the Zip 4 for the FROM address. In one embodiment this information is derived as follows. First the average length of residence for the area defined by the Zip 4 is calculated for the FROM address. This data is resident on the demographic file where the values indicate the number of years a person has resided at that residence. Then the average value for all addresses in that Zip 4 area is calculated. The variable then indicates the average length of residence for people living in the area defined by theZip 4 for the FROM address.

In one embodiment the model used to predict has nine variables. However the model used to predict may have any number of variables. Also the variables used may evolve based on information collected on the characteristics of confirmed fraud accounts. Another factor that may change the variables used relates to the evolution of methods used by the people committing the fraud. As the methods change the variables may have to be varied. However the present invention is not limited to the number of factors used on the types of factor used in the model to predict the risk of identity theft fraud.

Once the variables have been analyzed the values for each of the variables are plugged into the model. The basic formula for the model is generalized as follows 112233

Where Y is the dependent or outcome variable is the result used to predict the risk of identity theft fraud A is a constant value B1 . . . Bn are the coefficients or weights assigned to the independent variables and x1 . . . xn are the independent variables themselves. In the embodiment described above the independent variables include VALUE1 MATCH DF HOMVLDF DISTN HOMAPT BLDNG WARMADD Z4WEB and Z4 LORF.

Using known statistical methods to analyze actual data from confirmed identity theft fraud cases the following coefficients were determined for the model 

Where COMPUTE SCORE refers to the score that will be used at least in part to predict a risk of identity fraud. In this method the coefficients were determined using ordinary least squares regression. However other known statistical methods such as logistic regression CHAID CART discriminant analysis neural networks or the like may be used.

In one embodiment the score is between 0 and 1 with 1 being most likely to be fraud. However the scale may be any range. For instance the score may be in a range of 1 to 100. Similarly the score may be converted to a description. So depending on the risk tolerance of the institution making the inquiry ranges may be provided that would indicate likelihood of identity theft fraud. For instance on a scale of 0 to 1 a 0.8 or above may be designated as a high risk for fraud and the report to the company making the inquiry may be a descriptive assessment based on a numerical score rather than the score itself. The score itself shows some level of risk of identity theft fraud. Whether the level of risk is acceptable is one that must include input from the business as to its tolerance of this risk. Also while the score itself may be used to predict whether identity theft is being perpetrated the score may be used with other data such as without limitation warm address files undeliverable mail addresses syntax of the drivers license for a particular state to assess a risk of fraud or the year the social security number was issued is compared to the date of birth for rationality.

The model described for determining a score was developed using confirmed identify theft fraud data. However while the variables selected are based on an analysis of this confirmed fraud data other variables may be selected. Because the model described herein is based on a statistical analysis of confirmed fraud data the model takes what is known about the past and applies it to future events. Over time however behaviors and relationships change. This is especially true in the area of identity theft fraud. As fraud models and tools are effectively deployed the fraud migrates creating new behaviors and relationships. Because of this the model may be modified by using the same methods described herein to emphasize certain variables or add other variables from the information sources described herein. The model described herein was tested to understand how well the model performs or segments the entire population of applications. The effectiveness of the model described here is shown by the segmentation table and the ROC curve.

In developing the model the confirmed fraud data is scored. The scored data was categorized into equal sized buckets or categories from lowest to highest. Thus the identity theft fraud rate present within each bucket is shown by categorizing the worst 5 into the first bucket the next worst 5 into the second bucket etc. The following chart shows the performance of the model.

In this example segment 1 is the worst 5 of scored records from the test data set. As shown by the chart this segment has a fraud rate that is over 9 times the average fraud rate for the entire population. Note the Indexed fraud rate is calculated by taking the segment level fraud rate divided by the overall population fraud rate . 

Another way to look at the performance of the model is to look at a Power of Segmentation summary chart . This is sometimes also referred to as a ROC curve or Lorenz Diagram. This view shows how many cumulative fraud records are identified for each level of screening.

For example this curve indicates that the model is able to identify approximately 60 of the total frauds y axis by only looking at the worst 10 of records as identified by the model x axis . Similarly the curve shows that the worst 5 account for approximately 45 of the total fraud. The top line shows how well the model performs whereas the lower line shows how a randomly generated model performs i.e. If one looked at 10 of the records one would expect to identify about 10 of the fraud. 

Going back to after the score is determined at block the address velocity file is updated with the score. Next at block apply business rules to the data. This business rules are to ensure that regardless of the score certain data elements are checked e.g. whether the address is a warm address whether the address is a undeliverable mail address whether social security number is valid etc. That is create a file on this analyzed case and include in that data relating to whether a warm address was present whether it was a reported fraud address or whether the address was an undeliverable mailing address. Such information may be used in analysis of other inquiries in the future. Moreover regardless of the score if the new address or the address on an application is a warm address then the rule may be to report that as a high risk of identity theft.

Also regardless of the fraud risk information data relating to undeliverable mailing addresses would be useful information for the customer making the inquiry because sending media e.g. checks credit cards or the like to an undeliverable providing address is expense to the business and creates a risk for fraud to be committed. As such the customer making the inquiry that the address is an undeliverable mailing address would be useful to the customer and would save the customer the expense of mailing media to an undeliverable mailing address. Also by not mailing media to an undeliverable address the customer would reduce the risk of fraud being committed with the media.

Next at block user defined parameters are applied. That is the business making the request may have some criteria e.g. verify syntax of the driver s license . Each may provide information related to score thresholds based on its tolerance for risk. Apply those requirements and append that information with the score and the other information discussed with respect to business rules to create an output for sharing with the business.

At block fraud alerts may be created with reason codes and transmitted to the business entity through a user interface at block or a web server at block . The reason codes may be based on user defined criteria or codes based on the variables used in the analysis or data considered in the analysis. At block the previous history file for this account may also be updated. As shown in blocks and a case management system provides display screen functionality for the fraud alerts management queuing functionality with operator and pending case tracking.

In terms of output to the customer who initiated the inquiry in one embodiment the output message content includes the following 

However the output may be provided in a other ways. For instance the output may be provided by simply stating a level of risk or providing a statement of the level of risk of fraud in addition to the score. Also while the information related to the level of risk of fraud may be communicated via a data line the interne a facsimile or by voice including an operator simply calling the customer with an oral report of the risk analysis .

Also the web server block may be used by the customer to provide confirmed fraud data which would be used to update the client fraud data file for future use.

In operation the business customer makes an inquiry to assess a level of risk of fraud on a new application. Data is appended to the address provided on the new application and the reference address from a third party source such as a credit report or this information may be on the application . A score is derived using the model described above. The result may be provided real time or via batch processing. In either case the results maybe provided to the customer in any commercially practicable method including but not limited to a data line the internet a facsimile or by voice electronic or human voice . Customers may establish internal policies and procedures for handling accounts based on the score.

The system described with reference to is a client server system. The client transmitted the request and input information to a remote server for processing. shows the logical operations used in a system that is hosted at the client site. That is the customer hosts the system for determining the risk of fraud in a new application process or on an account takeover situation.

As shown in most of the logical operations are the same as the operations described in . However one difference is that the client hosts the software to perform the analysis to create the score. Also depending on the level of resources committed by the client may not access all the demographic data described in the process described with respect to . For instance the client hosted solution may be limited to Zip code plus 4 data variables. As such the model may not be as rigorous as the model as described with respect to . This type of system may be provide a risk analysis that while less rigorous useful in some situations.

As shown in and customers may only want an address change analyzed for risk of fraud if it is followed with a media requested within a period of time of the address change. It should be noted that the media request may be prior to the address change request. In this situation as shown in block a media request file is maintained storing media request information on accounts. Also as shown in block a 90 day rolling address change file is maintained. While in one embodiment the rolling address change file has a 90 day window the rolling address file is not limited to a 90 day window but rather may be constructed to any length of time. As shown in block a determination is made as to whether a media request matches a change in address request. If so then the analysis to score the change in address as described with respect to is performed as shown in .

As with the process described with respect to new applications a numerical score derived from this process may be used to assess risk. However in other embodiments the score may be considered along with data analyzed based on the business rules and client defined parameters to make as assessment of the risk of identity theft. This information may be provided in any number of ways including voice data line facsimile. Also the processing for takeover accounts may be done in batch real time and in a client server structure where the server is in a remote location or in a structure where the system is hosted at the client site.

There are several purpose for which this invention serves. A purpose of this invention is to prevent fraud losses associated with account takeover. An additional purpose of the invention is to prevent fraud losses that accrue from criminals submitting fraudulent credit account applications to financial institutions where the criminal assumes the credit identity of an unknowing person victim. If the account is approved the criminal receives the credit card debit card checks or merchandise or services at a street address other than that of the victim.

An additional purpose of this invention is to reduce fraud losses in a form of account takeover that is associated with over night emergency requests for the replacement of items such as credit debit cards personal checks traveler check replacements. There is a business and competitive need for financial institutions to provide emergency replacement services. Criminals can affect an account take over by exploiting the Emergency replacement process through requesting that an unauthorized replacement be sent to an address for which they have access. The criminal receives the replacement and commits unauthorized use fraud. Emergency type credit and debit card replacements are often requested to be sent to an address other than the address of record. A financial institution has a short processing window to establish the legitimacy of these requests. This invention would help to identify potentially fraudulent requests using the analysis described above.

Another purpose of this invention is to reduce fraud losses where product or service fulfillment or billing activities involve a street address and the effects of fraudulent addresses that would be negative to business interests. This can occur in the retail environment particularly in non face to face transactions. In addition to reduced direct fraud losses through superior detection the purpose of this invention is to reduce overhead and infrastructure expenses associated with low false positive rates reduced infrastructure expenses that are necessary to process fraudulent claims and an improved customer experience.

As can be seen by the above Figures different factors may be considered depending upon the particular request that is received and may be dynamically determined as to what factors should be considered for a given request. For instance some requests may only utilize certain factors while other requests may involve checks of all factors in providing a score.

Hence it can be seen that embodiments of the present invention provide various systems and methods that can be used for detecting fraud in account requests.

Embodiments of the invention can be embodied in a computer program product. It will be understood that a computer program product including one or more features or operations of the present invention may be created in a computer usable medium such as a CD ROM or other medium having computer readable code embodied therein. The computer usable medium preferably contains a number of computer readable program code devices configured to cause a computer to affect one or more of the various functions or operations herein described.

While the methods disclosed herein have been described and shown with reference to particular operations performed in a particular order it will be understood that these operations may be combined sub divided or re ordered to form equivalent methods without departing from the teachings of the present invention. Accordingly unless specifically indicated herein the order and grouping of the operations is not a limitation of the present invention.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other changes in the form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

