---

title: People directory with social privacy and contact association features
abstract: In one embodiment, a social networking system provides people look up service and establish anonymous communication session between users; creates contact association for future communication between users; and configures one or more privacy settings for users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553878&OS=09553878&RS=09553878
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09553878
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100816
---
The present disclosure generally relates to providing a person directory and look up service having social privacy and contact association features.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information personal interests and user s interaction with other users within the social networking system. The social networking system may also create and store records of user s events for example a social event the user is planning to attend. Meanwhile a user may control whether his information is shared with others by configuring privacy settings associated with a user profile and event information.

Directories of information related to people are known. In addition the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol is an application protocol for querying and modifying data using directory services. A directory can be a set of objects with attributes organized in a logical and hierarchical manner. A simple example is the telephone directory which consists of a list of names of either persons or organizations organized alphabetically with each name having an address and phone number associated with it.

The present disclosure generally relates to a people directory and contact look up service. In some implementations the people directory and contact look up service allows users to establish communication sessions create contact associations for future communications between users and or configure privacy settings having social and spatiotemporal aspects for access to contact information. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user first registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

In addition to user profile information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may host one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user. The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. The user may also add delete or update events that the user is associated with. For example a user may update a social event associated with a time and date that the user is planning to attend or make comments in his wall posts about a past event he attended.

On the other hand a user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data. In addition a user may also configure one or more privacy settings that control the accessibility of one or more aspects of its communication channel information such as a phone number or email address. For example a user may configure a privacy setting that allows only first degree contacts access to the user s cell phone number while allowing second degree e.g. friends of friends access to a user s email address. Privacy settings that control the accessibility of one or more aspects of a user s communication channel information may also have a dynamic location based aspect that considers the proximity in time and location with respect to the user. For example a user may configure a privacy setting that allows access to the user s email address only for other users who had attended the same event as the user within the past 3 months. As an additional example a user may configure a privacy setting that allows access to the user s cell phone number only for other users who are within a 10 mile radius of the user s current location. In sum and as a non limiting example social networking system may allow users to control access to information along one or more of the following categories 1 specific users contacts or friends 2 degrees of separation e.g. 1degree 2degree or all 3 past shared history same company same school same hometown 4 age e.g. one user being within a threshold age range of another user 5 political or other group affiliation 6 interests 7 events attended and 8 current location of residence or presence.

Additionally social networking system may provide various communication channels for users to interact with each other. Thus users of a social networking system may interact with each other by sending content items of various types of media through the communication channels. In particular embodiments communication channels may include but are not limited to email instant messaging text voice or video chat and wall posts. Social networking system may also maintain external address information such as external electronic email addresses phone number and physical address e.g. 1000 Main Street San Francisco Calif. . To facilitate user interaction and increase further engagement with the social networking system social networking systems generally provide a directory service for looking up registered users within the social networking system and providing contact information to allow a requesting user to reach a target user through a given communication channel. A social networking system may make the directory service available outside the social networking system.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can be generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

In particular embodiments directory service may be connected with databases and . In particular embodiments directory service may provide a people lookup service based on user profile data event data and privacy policy settings of registered users within the social networking service. In particular embodiments directory service may provide a people lookup service through social networking system front end . In particular embodiments directory service may provide a people lookup service through communication handler and or interactive voice response system for voice communication with mobile device . In particular embodiments mobile device may be a device capable of voice communication e.g. a phone or a personal computer .

Users may access directory service to search for communication channel information associated with one or more target users. A user can identify a target user by first and last name. In the case where the information provided by the user resolves to more than one candidate target user directory service may select from among the search candidates based on whom the initiating user is more likely to know for example friends of friends or users in the same social networks e.g. same university same city or attending the same concert . In other words the directory service may evaluate the overlap between a first search using names and other information as key words and a second search that evaluates a social graph including contacts between users. For example the social networking system may create the list of search candidates who a user is likely to know based on user connection information maintained in a social graph. A search process that access the social graph against the requesting user may generate a list of candidates that a user is likely to know by computing the probability that the user will positively convert a connection suggestion into a connection. The probability computation may be based on factors including but not limited to degrees of separation in the social graph demographic information e.g. number of common friends work history school history or location proximity historical behavioral data e.g. the number of times a candidate had accepted a request to connect prior interaction data e.g. a number of times a candidate had seen the user s video privacy settings e.g. a candidate may block connection requests from a certain social network group and prior instruction data e.g. a candidate may have had declined a similar connection request before . A suitable social graph search process is described more generally in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 069 308 7 188 153 and 7 451 161 and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

In particular embodiments access to directory service may operate in connection with a mobile directory service client application hosted on a mobile device . In some implementations the mobile directory service client application can be a plug in to an address book application installed on a mobile device . In particular embodiments the directory service may be accessible via a 3rd party software application e.g. a web browser hosted on mobile device . In particular embodiments an initiating user may submit a people look up query by providing the directory service 1 identification information for a target user e.g. first and last name a registered user id an email address or a phone number and 2 one or more types of communication channel information requested about the target user e.g. an email address a mobile phone number or other phone number . In particular embodiments the mobile directory service client application may communicate the query information provided by the initiating user to directory service and directory service may respond to the directory service query with information including but not limited to a NULL message e.g. no target user information is found or the initiating user does not have access to the target user s information the target user s communication channel information as permitted by the target user s privacy settings a confidence level indicator e.g. confirmed if the target user s communication channel information is from first degree contacts or unconfirmed if otherwise and error codes e.g. directory service is not available . In particular embodiments communication between the mobile directory service client application and directory service may be implemented using the User Datagram Protocol UDP . In addition the response returned from directory service may be in a JSON JavaScript Object Notation coded array. In other embodiments communication between the mobile directory service client application and directory service may be implemented in Short Message Service SMS protocol. In particular embodiments the mobile directory service client application may be configured with a white list which authorizes access to the directory service via the client application from certain 3rd party software applications also hosted on the mobile device . In particular embodiments the target user may configure one or more privacy settings that authorize access to the target user s communication channel information for specific groups of users e.g. friends only friends of friends only or specific networks only and control what communication channel information e.g. mobile phone number or email addresses can be made available to the mobile directory service client application. In various implementations the client will establish a communications channel that includes the query identity from the client and a server response. The encoding for query and response will be dependent on the devices and transmissions medium. Example embodiments may include using UDP user datagram protocol for connectionless results using simple key value encoding. Other embodiments may utilize SMS for the results or traditional web services technologies over HTTP. Certain embodiments may use a combination of the foregoing. The service described herein is independent of the communications channel technology.

In particular embodiments directory service may search for the target user step . In particular embodiments if directory service cannot find the target user then directory service may return a user not found message to the initiating user step . If directory service finds the target user and access to the target user s directory information is allowed by the privacy settings of the target user then directory service may provide the target user s directory information to the initiating user step . The directory service may access the privacy configurations of the target user against the social and other attributes of the initiating user such as whether the initiating user is a friend of the target user the degree of separation between the target and initiating user the residence locations of the target and initiating user the groups or affiliations of the target and initiating user the common interests of the target and initiating user and the like to determine whether to allow access to the communications channel information of the target user. For example the target user may have configured a privacy contact setting that allows anyone that attended the same college to access one or more aspects of the target user s contact information such as an email address or telephone number. The configurability of contact information privacy settings with the attributes discussed above allows for semi public access to user directory information.

In particular embodiments if access to the communications channel information of the target user and anonymous connection is not allowed by the privacy settings of the target user then directory service may return an access denied message to the initiating user. If anonymous connection is allowed by the privacy settings of the target user then directory service may establish an anonymous connection session between the target user and initiating user step and . The anonymous connection session may be in the form of anonymous phone call anonymous email communication and anonymous chat session all of which may be mediated by directory service . As described above directory service may access the privacy configurations of the target user against the social and other attributes of the initiating user to determine whether to initiate an anonymous communications session. For example the target user may configure one or more settings that allow users that are separated by two degrees of separation to contact the target user over an anonymous communications session. The privacy configuration settings may also include other attributes in addition to or in lieu of degrees of separation such as current residence events attended interests personal history e.g. common education institutions or employers .

In particular embodiments directory service may determine whether the anonymous communication session has ended step . In particular embodiments after the anonymous communication session had ended directory service may formulate and provide the target user the option to create contact association for future communication between the target user and the initiating user step . In particular embodiments if the target user accepts the option the social networking system may create contact association for future communication between the target user and the initiating user step . For example if directory service mediates an anonymous phone call directory service may employ Interactive Voice Response IVR functionality to query the user about various contact association options after the call has ended. Alternatively directory service may transmit an email to the target user with a form querying the user for various contact association options. Other communications channel manager functionality can be used to query users about contact association options including SMS chat and the like.

In particular embodiments one or more privacy settings define access parameters for the target user s communication channel information user profile information and event information. For example the target user may configure privacy settings to specifically block the initiating user from accessing certain communication channels or may block the initiating user from accessing the target user s event information or may block the initiating user from accessing the target user s wall posts but allow the initiating user for future communication in certain communication channels. In particular embodiments if the target user accepts the option to update privacy settings then the social networking system may formulate a privacy setting update mechanism e.g. populate a web page with privacy setting parameters and present the web page to the target user allowing the target user to update privacy settings in the privacy policy database step .

In particular embodiments a mobile directory service client application hosted on a mobile device may provide access to directory service . In particular embodiments an initiating user may request a directory look up for a target user by providing the mobile directory service the target user s information e.g. first and last name and type of communication channel information requested e.g. cell phone number or email address . In particular embodiments the mobile directory service client application may automatically collect location information of the initiating user. For example the initiating user s location can be determined by GPS or a mobile phone location tracking function of the initiating user s mobile device . In particular embodiments the mobile directory service client application may communicate with directory service and provide the target user s information and the initiating user s current location information Step . In particular embodiments if directory service is not available the mobile directory service client application may return a service not available message to the initiating user Step . In particular embodiments if directory service cannot find the target user the mobile directory service client application may return a user not found message to the initiating user Step . In particular embodiments directory service may determine the target user s current location information. For example the target user s location can be determined by GPS function on the target user s mobile device . In particular embodiments directory service may access a location history data store to determine the target user s and initiating user s past location information. For example the location information can be based on a data store of check in activity maintained by a geosocial networking service an events service that allows users to configure and register attendance for events status updates calendar information and the like.

In particular embodiments the target user may have one or more privacy settings that allows access to the target user s communication channel information only for user requests that can satisfy one or more social spatiotemporal geographic and or temporal conditions defined by the one or more privacy settings. For example the target user s privacy setting may allow access to the target user s cell phone number only for requesting users that are currently in the same vicinity e.g. within 1 mile as the target user. In such an embodiment directory service may compare the current locations of the initiating and target users. In other implementation users may configure privacy settings that include one or more spatiotemporal aspects to allow access to contact information to users that have crossed paths with the target user. For example a user may configure a privacy setting that allows access to contact information to users that were in the same geographic location out to a configurable radius at the same time as the user within a configurable window of time all within a configurable overall sliding window of time as measured from the request. Such privacy settings enable users to allow access to contact information to requesting users that met target users at a party or other social event in the recent past. In addition the privacy settings can also include a social dimension such as specifying a maximum degree of separation beyond which contact information may not be allowed. For example the target user s privacy settings may allow access to the target user s cell phone number only for the target user s friends in the social networking system but allow access to the target user s instant message ID for the users in the social networking systems who are friends of friends and attended the same college e.g. Stanford University or were in the same city of the college e.g. Palo Alto Calif. during the same years as the target user attended the college. In particular embodiments if directory service determines that the initiating user can not satisfy the social spatial and temporal conditions defined by the target user s privacy settings the mobile directory service client application may return a user not found message to the initiating user Step . In particular embodiments if access to the target user s communication channel information is allowed by the target user s privacy settings the mobile directory service client application may provide the target user s communication channel information to the initiating user Step .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

