---

title: Method and system for displaying advertisements between schedule listings
abstract: In one embodiment, the invention is a system and method for simultaneously displaying advertisements with an electronic program guide (EPG). The system displays television schedule information in rows of schedule information items including the time and channel for least a portion of the displayed television schedule information items. An advertisement is selected for display from a plurality of advertisements, and the selected advertisement is displayed between two rows of the schedule information items simultaneously with the displayed television schedule information items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08272011&OS=08272011&RS=08272011
owner: Index Systems, Inc.
number: 08272011
owner_city: Tortola
owner_country: VG
publication_date: 20100511
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 401 301 filed on Mar. 27 2003 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 284 894 filed on Jul. 13 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 687 906 which is a 371 of PCT International Application No. PCT US97 23852 filed on Dec. 19 1997 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 034 784 filed Dec. 19 1996 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

As the number of television channels available on cable and by satellite expands an on screen electronic program guide EPG become more indispensable. Such an EPG permits the user to sort the available present and future programming by theme time and channel. As a result the user can find a program of interest more easily.

It is costly to collect EPG data for display and to transmit such data to the consumer. Thus there is a need to find a way to recover the cost of these activities.

According to the invention advertisements are inserted in an EPG on the screen of display monitor between individual television program listings. Specifically a memory stores EPG data and advertising data. A microprocessor is programmed to recover EPG data corresponding to a number of television programs and advertising date from the memory. The microprocessor controls the monitor to display the recovered EPG data on the screen in lines of television program listings each television program listing being displayed in a separate line and to display the recovered advertising data in a line on the screen instead of one of the television program listings.

In a preferred embodiment the EPG and advertising data are displayed in a first area of the screen and a detail window is displayed in a second area of the screen. One of the lines of EPG data is highlighted with a cursor. A description of the television program listing highlighted by the cursor is inserted in the second area. When the line of advertising data is highlighted with the cursor a description relating to the advertising data is inserted in the second area.

The disclosures of U.S. application Ser. No. 08 475 395 filed on Jun. 7 1995 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 239 794 May 29 2001 and application Ser. No. 08 726 814 filed on Oct. 10 1956 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 028 599 Feb. 22 2000 are incorporated fully herein by reference. As illustrated in the former application a source of television signals in such as a terrestrial antenna or a cable is connected to a television tuner . The output of tuner is a modulated intermediate frequency signal containing video and audio television information. Tuner is connected by an intermediate frequency amplifier IF AMP to a picture detector PICTURE DET and a sound detector SOUND DET which produce base band video and audio signals respectively. The audio signal is coupled by a sound amplifier SOUND AMP to a loudspeaker . The video signal is coupled by a video amplifier not shown to one input of a switch . Sound detector and picture detector are connected to the audio and video inputs respectively of a video cassette recorder VCR . Alternatively television signal source could be directly connected to the RF input of VCR if its internal turner and demodulating circuitry is to be utilized. The output of VCR is connected to the other input of switch . The output of switch is connected to one input of a conventional picture in picture PIP integrated circuit chip . The output of PIP chip is connected to the video input of a television receiver or monitor TV having a screen not shown .

An updatable database of the schedule of program listings of all the available channels for a prescribed period of time e.g a day or a week is electronically stored in a program schedule memory . These program listings typically include for each program the title a program description the day of the week the start time of the day the program length and the channel on which the program is transmitted and thus available for reception at source . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the period of time for which the program listings are stored is different for the guides depending upon viewer priorities and preferences. For example the information needed to display the time specific program guide TISPG and channel specific program guide CSPG may be stored for one or two days and the information needed to display the theme specific program guide THSPG may be stored for a week or more. The data base can be updated by a continuous data link in the vertical blanking interval VBI of one television channel broadcast to the television receiver in well known fashion. Alternatively the data base can be updated by unplugging memory and replacing it with a memory having the updated data base. Memory is connected to a microprocessor that is programmed to control the operation of the described equipment. An operating program for microprocessor is stored in a read only memory ROM . A viewer input device preferably in the form of a remote IR controller is coupled to microprocessor to provide commands from the viewer. A video processor is coupled to microprocessor . When the viewer wishes to see television program listings microprocessor recalls a portion of the program schedule data base from memory and couples it to video processor where the program listings are formatted for display. Preferably the information stored in video processor is a bit map of what is displayed on the screen of television receiver . Video processor is connected to the other input of PIP chip . Preferably viewer input device controls microprocessor by cursor movement on the screen of television receiver . To this end microprocessor and video processor are coupled to a cursor position register . Alternatively the viewer can select items of information displayed on the screen by keying into viewer input device code numbers assigned to these items. Microprocessor is also coupled to tuner for channel change to VCR for play record selection and start stop to switch for selection for one of its inputs and to PIP chip for selection of the mode of PIP operation.

The format of the electronic program guide is shown in . The format has a background area and an overlaid PIP window in the upper left hand corner of the screen. The real time i.e. 5 11 p.m. is displayed in a sub area of PIP window . Background area includes a banner and message prompting area the top of the screen a program description area in the upper right hand corner of the screen adjacent to PIP window and a program schedule area below areas and . Program description area includes the start time and length duration of the program being described. In area EPG data retrieved from memory is displayed in lines each program listing being displayed in a separate line. The viewer can move a cursor vertically to highlight one of the lines of program listings displayed in area . The highlighted background of cursor and the background of program description area are preferably the same color or shade. The complete moving images of a currently broadcast television program in real time and the current time are displayed in PIP window and the audio portion of the television program displayed in PIP window is reproduced by the sound system of monitor .

Advertising inserts are displayed on the screen between the lines of program listings in program schedule area and related information or announcements are displayed in description area . With reference to the advertising inserts are preferably transmitted in the VBI as part of the program schedule information and stored at the television receiver in RAM represented functional as an advertising insert memory . Preferably the inserts are transmitted as part of the packets of information about the programs i.e. show information packages SIPs with which the advertising inserts are displayed. The apparatus of functions as described in Ser. No. 08 475 395 the advertising inserts being treated as part of the program listings displayed in area and the brief program descriptions displayed in area .

In practice memory and memory could be physically incorporated in a single RAM. Addresses for the advertising inserts could be stored as part of the pre established time lists for the programs with which the advertising inserts are displayed. Thus the addresses link the time lists to the advertising inserts and each advertising insert is only stored once in memory . By linking the advertising inserts to the time lists the displayed advertising insert becomes time dependent. Thus the content of the displayed advertisements can to some extent be directed to the interests of the viewers. Advertisements of interest to housewives would be displayed in the morning and advertisements of interest to children would be displayed in the early evening.

As illustrated in an advertising insert is preferably displayed as a line below the listing NBC 4 NEWS of the television program that the advertiser e.g. Coca Cola sponsors. However it is not necessary that there be a relationship between the position of the advertiser and the television program depending on the circumstances. To obtain more information about the subject of advertising insert the viewer highlights the line with cursor then such information is displayed in area instead of information about a television program. For example the announcement in area could inform the viewer that the advertised product is on sale in articular retail establishment at a particular price or give an more detailed product description.

