---

title: Transaction processing circuit
abstract: According to one exemplary embodiment, a system for processing transactions is provided that comprises a transaction processing circuit configured to receive transaction data relating to one or more transactions for the purchase of software applications from a digital application store. The transaction processing circuit is further configured to apply one or more business rules to the transaction data and to generate one or more transaction summary files. The transaction summary files are transmitted to a payment system configured to perform, based on the transaction summary files, at least one of recording revenue related to the transactions and causing payment to be distributed to developers of the software applications. At least a portion of the transaction processing circuit is implemented using a shared, scalable computing system. A level of resources of the shared, scalable computing system requested for implementation of the transaction processing circuit is varied based on a volume of transactions processed by the transaction processing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563908&OS=09563908&RS=09563908
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09563908
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
The present application relates generally to systems and methods for processing transactions. According to various exemplary embodiments the present disclosure relates to processing transactions e.g. micro payment transactions made using mobile computing devices.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a system for processing transactions comprises a transaction processing circuit configured to receive transaction data relating to one or more transactions for the purchase of software applications from a digital application store. The transaction processing circuit is further configured to apply one or more business rules to the transaction data and to generate one or more transaction summary files. The transaction summary files are transmitted to a payment system configured to perform based on the transaction summary files at least one of recording revenue related to the transactions and causing payment to be distributed to developers of the software applications. At least a portion of the transaction processing circuit is implemented using a shared scalable computing system. A level of resources of the shared scalable computing system requested for implementation of the transaction processing circuit is varied based on a volume of transactions processed by the transaction processing system.

According to another exemplary embodiment a method of processing transactions comprises receiving at a transaction processing circuit transaction data relating to one or more transactions for the purchase of software applications from a digital application store. The method further comprises applying using the transaction processing circuit one or more business rules to the transaction data. The method further comprises generating using the transaction processing circuit one or more transaction summary files. The transaction summary files are transmitted to a payment system configured to perform based on the transaction summary files at least one of recording revenue related to the transactions and causing payment to be distributed to developers of the software applications. At least a portion of the transaction processing circuit is implemented using a shared scalable computing system. A level of resources of the shared scalable computing system requested for implementation of the transaction processing circuit is varied based on a volume of transactions processed by the transaction processing system.

According to yet another exemplary embodiment one or more non transitory computer readable media configured to store machine executable instructions are executable by one or more processors to implement a method comprising receiving at a transaction processing circuit purchase data relating to one or more transactions for the purchase of software applications from an application store. The purchase data is received from a digital application catalog or store. The purchase data represents purchases made from the application catalog in relation to the one or more transactions. The transaction processing circuit is implemented using a shared scalable computing system. A level of resources of the shared scalable computing system requested for implementation of the transaction processing circuit is varied based on a volume of transactions processed by the transaction processing system. The method further comprises receiving at the transaction processing circuit payment data representing payments received in relation to the one or more transactions. The payment data is received from a payment provider that collects payments for the transactions. The method further comprises grouping using a master node of the transaction processing circuit the one or more transactions into one or more transaction batches. The method further comprises for each transaction batch confirming using one or more worker nodes of the transaction processing circuit that the purchase data is consistent with the payment data. The one or more worker nodes are implemented using resources of the shared scalable computing system that are allocated based at least in part on a volume of transactions being processed by the transaction processing circuit. The method further comprises generating using the transaction processing circuit one or more transaction summary files. The transaction summary files are transmitted to a payment system configured to perform based on the transaction summary files at least one of recording revenue related to the transactions and causing payment to be distributed to developers of the software applications.

Referring generally to the figures systems and methods for processing transactions are described according to various exemplary embodiments. In some embodiments systems and or methods may be related to purchases made e.g. Over the Air OTA on a mobile and or handheld computing device such as a cellular phone or smartphone. In one embodiment transactions may be for the purchase of software applications that may be operated on the mobile computing device. In other embodiments transactions may be for the purchase of media files such as audio e.g. music and or video e.g. movie files. In still further embodiments other types of transactions may be processed using the systems and or methods described herein. While various embodiments disclosed herein are described with reference to transactions for software applications it should be appreciated that the subject of the transactions may be any product and or service. In some embodiments a transaction processing system or circuit e.g. a front end system may be provided that is configured to interface with a payment system and work in conjunction with the payment system to process transactions. Various embodiments support multiple payment types e.g. credit cards debit cards invoice accounts etc. and or payment methods e.g. payment gateways operator or service provider billing methods online payment providers etc. . Various embodiments also provide for reconciliation and or reporting of data to developers and consumers.

One or more embodiments described herein may provide for efficient processing of a high volume of low value e.g. inexpensive transactions. For example one or more embodiments described herein may provide for processing of a high volume of transactions e.g. more than one thousand per day more than ten thousand per day etc. for software applications where various software applications may each cost a small amount of money e.g. 0.99 1.00 1.99 2.00 2.99 less than 3.00 etc. . One or more embodiments may provide a system that is capable of interfacing with multiple different product and or service providers e.g. software developers . One or more embodiments may provide a system that is capable of handling multiple different payment types currency types etc. One or more embodiments may provide a system that handles at least a portion of a process for managing transactions such that the complexity cost etc. of a payment processing system may be reduced. One or more embodiments may provide a system that can flexibly scale to increasing or decreasing processing power and or data storage needs which may result in cost savings.

Referring first to a block diagram of a transaction system for processing transactions is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Transaction system may include a transaction processing circuit configured to receive data related to requested transactions and process the transactions. The transactions may be for the purchase of software applications from an application store. Transaction processing circuit may receive data from and or send data to a payment system an application catalog a developer portal a payment provider etc. in the course of processing transactions. In various embodiments transaction system and or transaction processing circuit may be implemented using instructions stored on one or more computer readable media e.g. memories databases etc. and executed by one or more processors e.g. server computers . In some embodiments e.g. the exemplary embodiment described herein with reference to transaction system and or transaction processing circuit may be implemented in a cloud computing environment. Transaction processing circuit is configured to process transactions for the purchase of software applications. The software applications on which the transactions are based may be produced by one or more developers that communicate with system through a developer portal . Developer portal may be used by developers to market software applications in the application store. In some embodiments the software applications may be developed for a particular device or set of devices e.g. Palm Pre Palm Pixi etc. operating system e.g. Palm WebOS etc. In some embodiments developers may be given access through developer portal to one or more software development kits SDKs that may be used to develop applications for one or more platforms. In some embodiments developer portal may provide an interface for developers to upload software applications e.g. new applications for sale in the application store and or information about the software applications.

In some embodiments developers may be required to pay a fee to market applications in the application store and or to gain access to an SDK. The fee may be a membership fee annual fee quarterly fee monthly fee etc. one time fee etc. In such embodiments developer portal may provide an interface for developers to pay the fees. The fee payment e.g. initial fee payment membership renewal etc. may be submitted through developer portal to a payment partner e.g. Paypal etc. that may process the payment.

Each developer may receive payments related to the purchase of the developer s applications in the application store. In some embodiments the payments may be fixed payments e.g. daily weekly monthly based on number of applications in the application store based on popularity and or complexity of applications etc. . In other embodiments the payments may be related to the number and or type of applications developed by the developer that were sold in the application store. In some embodiments the payments may be proportional to the gross revenue net profits etc. generated by the sales of the developer s applications. For example a developer may be paid a portion of the total revenue generated by the sales of its applications based on the nature of the contractual relationship with the developer. In some embodiments the portion or percentage of the revenue generated by different applications that is paid to different developers may be the same for all developers. In some embodiments the portion of the revenue and or profits paid may vary for different developers and or applications. For example a first developer may receive a first percentage of the revenue generated by its applications and a second developer may a second percentage of the revenue generated by its applications. In another example a developer may receive a first percentage of the revenue generated by sales of a first application and a second percentage of the revenue generated by sales of a second application e.g. based on the category of the application popularity of the application etc. . In some embodiments revenue produced by an application may be shared among the developer of the application and the host of the application store. In other embodiments other parties may also share in the revenue produced by an application such as a service provider. In some embodiments the number and or type of parties sharing revenue and or the percentage of revenue shared may change over time e.g. based on changes in contractual agreements . In some embodiments only transactions related to paid applications may be processed by system e.g. applications offered in the application store at no cost to a consumer may not be handled by system .

An application catalog may be configured to receive information relating to the applications from developer portal and publish applications available for purchase from the application store. Application catalog may include a directory of all applications available for purchase through the application store. In some embodiments the directory of applications may be reviewable and or searchable by a consumer in a variety of different ways such as by name category e.g. productivity travel games etc. developer rating e.g. critic and or consumer rating number of purchases application size etc.

In some embodiments application catalog may be configured to receive transaction requests for the download of software applications from consumers e.g. via a user interface . Applications available through the application store may be offered to consumers in exchange for a fee or payment e.g. one time payment subscription etc. . A customer may order one or more software applications listed in application catalog and provide payment information to be used to pay the one time fee or first subscription payment.

Orders received by application catalog may be forwarded for payment processing by a payment provider e.g. CyberSource . For example details relating to the order e.g. specific applications ordered number of applications etc. and payment for the order e.g. account number credit card number credit card expiration security code billing name and address etc. may be transmitted to a computer system of payment provider and payment provider may subsequently process payment for the purchased software applications. In some embodiments payment provider may arrange financial authorization for the requested transaction based on the provided payment information charge application fees determine any applicable taxes and or fees etc. Payment provider may provide transaction processing circuit with data relating to purchases refunds chargebacks etc. for any orders handled by payment provider .

Application catalog may also provide information about orders directly to transaction processing circuit . In some embodiments one or more functions related to handling transaction requests may alternatively or additionally be performed by transaction processing circuit .

Transaction processing circuit is configured to process and or organize transactions for software applications received by application catalog . In some embodiments transaction processing circuit may operate in conjunction with a payment system to process transactions e.g. may be a system that processes data and provides the processed data to another system or subsystem . For example transaction processing circuit may be configured to receive order and or payment data from application catalog and or payment provider process the orders into batches process each order batch e.g. by applying one or more business rules and or summarize the transactions revenue and or payment in a format that may be transmitted to payment system . Processing transactions using transaction processing circuit and transmitting summaries to payment system rather than transmitting each individual transaction may allow payment system to be less complex e.g. less costly less difficult to design etc. than if payment system were responsible for handling each individual transaction. For example in a micropayment system involving a high volume of transactions greater than a minimum volume such as 1 000 transactions per day 10 000 transactions per day 50 000 transactions per day 100 000 transactions per month 500 000 transactions per month etc. each having a relative low monetary value e.g. an average or maximum value of less than a predetermined value such as one dollar five dollars ten dollars etc. millions of individual transactions may be processed by transaction processing system into a small number of summaries e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. .

Transaction processing circuit is configured to receive data relating to application orders from application catalog and or payment provider . Transaction processing circuit may be configured to organize the orders into one or more batches of orders to be processed. Transaction processing circuit may be configured to organize orders into batches based on the size of the orders e.g. number of applications monetary value total download size etc. characteristics of the ordered applications e.g. application size application type or category application name etc. application developer and or developer characteristics e.g. developer size business area geographic location etc. customer and or customer characteristics e.g. customer type such as frequent or occasional customer customer geographic location payment type e.g. credit card credit account money order gift card promotional discounts etc. and or any other data related to the orders.

Each batch of orders may be placed in a queue. In some embodiments multiple computing systems e.g. servers may be used to process the batches of orders. For example part or all of transaction processing circuit may be implemented in a cloud computing environment e.g. in the manner described below with respect to . In some such embodiments queues may be organized to prioritize the processing of the order batches by the computing systems or resources.

Transaction processing circuit may be configured to retrieve order batches from the queues and process each order batch. Each batch may be processed by applying one or more business rules to the batch. For example for each batch order data related to the batch that is received from application catalog may be compared with order payment data received from payment provider . If payment is not received for the order within a certain timeframe transaction processing circuit may be configured to activate an alert to a human user to investigate why payment has not been received. In other embodiments transaction processing circuit may be configured to instruct an automated payment conflict resolution system or module to determine why payment has not been received.

Transaction processing circuit may additionally or alternatively be configured to calculate revenue data related to each batch. For example if a batch is for applications developed by a particular developer transaction processing circuit may be configured to determine how much of the total revenue associated with the batch is to be retained by an owner of the application store given to the developer paid in taxes and or other fees etc.

Transaction processing circuit may also be configured to generate revenue summaries or reports related to the orders received via application catalog and or payment provider . The revenue summaries may represent revenue data and or other financial information related to the orders. In some embodiments each revenue summary may represent data related to orders received for a particular time period. In other embodiments different revenue summaries and or portions of revenue summaries may be alternatively or additionally related to different batches developers customers payment types application types etc. In some embodiments each revenue summary may include data enabling the revenue data to be reviewed and or analyzed by order characteristics such as developer customer payment type application type order size etc. In some embodiments the revenue summaries may include the total revenue collected e.g. for a particular time period such as a day week month etc. total amount owed to vendors revenue by geographic region e.g. country continent state etc. and or currency etc.

Transaction processing circuit may also be configured to generate a vendor payment summary or report. A vendor payment summary may represent the amount of money and or percentage or share of total revenue e.g. for a particular time period such as a month that should be given to one or more developers. For example a vendor payment summary for a particular month may indicate that Application A has generated 35 000 in revenue Application B has generated 2 000 and Application C has generated 8 250 and that the developer of each respective application should receive a fixed percentage of the revenue generated by its application. In some embodiments a revenue summary may be generated for one timeframe e.g. daily and a vendor payment summary may be generated for another timeframe e.g. monthly . The order data revenue summaries vendor payment summaries and or other data may be stored in a storage device e.g. one or more memories databases etc. . The revenue summaries and or vendor payment summaries may be transmitted e.g. periodically to payment system .

Payment system is configured to manage payments to and or from developers relating to application sales in the application store. Payment system is configured to manage payments to developers for the sale of the developers applications in the application store. In some embodiments payment system may be configured to work in conjunction with a payment partner e.g. PayPal to make payments to the developers. Payments to the developers may be made based on data included in revenue summaries and or vendor payment summaries received from transaction processing circuit . For example payment system may be configured to arrange payments to vendors on a periodic e.g. monthly basis and a vendor payment summary received from transaction processing circuit may indicate that Developer A is entitled to 15 000 Developer B is entitled to 2 000 and Developer C is entitled to 1 520. In such an example based on the vendor payment summary payment system may direct payment partner to distribute 15 000 to Developer A 2 000 to Developer B and 1 520 to Developer C. Payment partner may be configured to make the payments based on the instructions from payment system . Payment partner may return confirmation that the payments have been made to payment system . In some embodiments payment partner may return a revenue disbursement reconciliation report listing all transactions related to revenue disbursements.

Payment system may also be configured to manage the receipt of fees e.g. membership fees from developers. Payment system may be configured to receive data relating to subscribing developers from developer portal . The data may be related to developers that have newly joined through developer portal and or developers having information that has changed. The data may include for example one or more developers name mailing address billing address phone number revenue account information fee payment account information etc.

Payment system may also be configured to receive data from developer portal relating to the payment of membership fees by developers. The data may include the monetary value paid by a developer. In some embodiments system may support multiple different membership levels e.g. a short term membership with a high monthly fee and a longer term membership with a lower monthly fee and the data may include the membership level for which the developer paid. In some embodiments payment system may be configured to receive a membership fee reconciliation report listing any developer fees received and or processed by payment partner . Payment system may be configured to compare the fee data received from developer portal with the fee data received from payment partner to determine if any conflicts exist between the data e.g. if developer portal reports the payment of a fee that was not received by payment partner .

In some embodiments payment system may be configured to provide transaction processing circuit with one or more confirmation reports. In one embodiment payment system may be configured to provide transaction processing circuit with confirmation that a revenue summary has been posted. If transaction processing circuit transmits a revenue summary to payment system and does not receive confirmation e.g. within a predetermined timeframe transaction processing circuit may be configured to activate an alert and or take other action.

In another embodiment payment system may be configured to provide transaction processing circuit with confirmation that payments have been made to one or more vendors. If transaction processing circuit transmits a vendor payment summary to payment system and does not receive confirmation transaction processing circuit may be configured to activate an alert and or take other action. In some embodiments transaction processing circuit may be configured to transmit a payment confirmation e.g. including information contained in the confirmation received from payment system to one or more developers via developer portal .

In some embodiments transaction system may be configured to analyze transactions made using application catalog and generate one or more analytics reports. For example transaction system may be configured to analyze data regarding the transactions and generate a report that identifies one or more different types of information for a reporting period such as the most popular applications by download volume top grossing applications and or developers most popular applications by carrier top categories of applications e.g. games productivity travel etc. and or other types of information. This information may be transmitted to application catalog for presentation to consumers. For example the information may be used to present a recommendations screen to consumers using application catalog and or assist in consumer searches for desired applications. In some embodiments the analytics information may be transmitted to developer portal for viewing and or use by application developers.

Referring now to a system for processing transactions is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. System may be a more detailed implementation of a system such as system . System includes a transaction processing circuit . Transaction processing circuit may include a master node one or more queuing nodes one or more worker nodes and a transaction database . In various embodiments one or more components of transaction processing circuit may be implemented as instructions stored on one or more computer readable media e.g. memories and executable by one or more processors. In some embodiments one or more components of transaction processing circuit may be implemented in a cloud computing environment e.g. in the manner shown herein with respect to . In some embodiments one or more components of transaction processing circuit may be implemented using the Java programming language.

Master node is configured to coordinate the processing of transactions by transaction processing circuit . Master node may be configured to receive data relating to one or more transactions from an application catalog and or a payment provider . Customers may place orders for one or more software applications through application catalog and payment for the orders may be processed by payment provider . In some embodiments master node may be configured to receive purchase data from application catalog and or payment data from payment provider .

Master node may be configured to group one or more transactions e.g. including purchase and or payment data for the transactions into one or more batches. A batch may comprise a plurality of transaction data files sharing at least one criteria. The transactions may be grouped into batches based on the customer developer application or any other criteria. In some embodiments master node may receive the data from application catalog and or payment provider in batches. In such embodiments master node may leave the transactions in the received batches or reorganize them into different batches.

Master node may be configured to assign each of the batches to one or more queues. The batches may be assigned to queues in any of a variety of ways such as based on developer type application type monetary value of transactions priority of transactions etc. In some embodiments the batches may be entered into queues by one or more queuing nodes . The batches may remain in the queues until they are retrieved from the queues by worker nodes .

One or more worker nodes may be configured to retrieve transaction batches from the queues and process the batches. Processing the batches may include applying one or more business rules to the batches. For example one business rule may dictate that the purchase data received from application catalog for each transaction must be consistent with the payment data received from payment provider for the transaction. If the data is not consistent transaction processing circuit e.g. master node worker nodes and or other components of transaction processing circuit may be configured to attempt to resolve the inconsistency. For example for a particular transaction the purchase data from application catalog may indicate that a customer purchased five applications at a value of ten dollars but the payment data from payment provider may indicate that no payment was processed for the transaction or only a payment of five dollars was processed for the transaction. In such an example the worker node may identify the inconsistency and transaction processing circuit may be configured to alert a user of the inconsistency. In some embodiments transaction processing circuit may be configured to communicate with payment provider to request information and or resolve the inconsistency.

Master node and or worker nodes may be configured to organize the data for summarization and generate one or more revenue summaries and or vendor payment summaries. The revenue summaries vendor payment summaries purchase data payment data business rules data relating to the application of the business rules transaction data and or any other type of data may be stored in a transaction database . In some embodiments data may be stored in one or more partitioned tables. In some embodiments data stored in transaction database may be stored and or replicated in one or more redundant storage media to protect against data loss in the event of physical and or logical damage to transaction database . The revenue summaries and or vendor payment summaries may be transmitted to a payment system .

Payment system may be configured to receive revenue summaries and or vendor payment summaries from transaction processing circuit . Payment system may include a reporting module configured to post and or store e.g. in a payment database data included in the revenue summaries. The data posted by reporting module may include the total revenue received for a particular timeline e.g. a particular day the portion of the total revenue that is retained by the application store owner the portion of the total revenue that is to be paid to developers and or other parties and or other types of data. In some embodiments a payment circuit may be configured to return a revenue confirmation report to master node of transaction processing circuit confirming that the revenue data has been posted.

Payment system may also be configured to arrange payments to one or more developers based on data received in vendor payment summaries. Payment system may include a payment circuit configured to analyze the data included in the vendor payment summaries for any errors. If no errors are discovered payment circuit may be configured to arrange payment of the developers according to the data in the vendor payment summaries e.g. in conjunction with a payment partner . In some embodiments payment circuit may be configured to return a vendor payment confirmation report confirming payment of the developers. In some embodiments master node may be configured to send a payment report to one or more developers through developer portal indicating that revenue payments have been made.

In some embodiments payment system may be configured to arrange the receipt of fees e.g. membership fees from developers e.g. using a payment partner . In such embodiments payment circuit may be configured to transmit a membership fee report to master node including data relating to membership fees paid by one or more developers.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system for processing transactions is shown according to yet another exemplary embodiment. illustrates an exemplary computing architecture that may be utilized to implement one or more components of a transaction system e.g. such as systems and or . The computing architecture illustrated in includes a shared scalable computing resource such as a computing cloud. System includes a transaction processing system . Various components of transaction processing circuit are implemented using cloud based resources. In various embodiments the computing cloud utilized to implement components of transaction processing circuit may be a private cloud public cloud e.g. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud or E2C or a hybrid cloud. In some embodiments the cloud may be partitioned into two or more zones e.g. cloud zones A and B .

Transaction processing circuit includes a master node e.g. similar to master node configured to receive data related to one or more transactions from applications catalog payment provider payment circuit and or other components and process the transactions. The data may be received over a computing network e.g. the Internet . Master node may be configured to organize one or more transactions into batches. The transaction batches may be placed into queues at queuing node . The batches may be retrieved from the queues by worker nodes and processed e.g. by applying one or more business rules. In some embodiments one or more revenue and or vendor payment summaries may be generated by worker nodes and or master node . Data related to the transactions may be stored in transaction database and in some embodiments redundantly stored in transaction database replicate . The revenue and or vendor payment summaries may be transmitted to payment system reporting module . In various embodiments one or more components of transaction processing circuit may be coupled to storage devices e.g. storage devices and or .

Various components of transaction processing circuit are implemented in a cloud computing environment e.g. using different computing and or storage resources allocated over a network . In some embodiments cloud resources may be allocated based on processing and or storage needs of transaction processing circuit . For example if a small amount of transactions require processing a smaller amount of resources e.g. fewer worker nodes may be purchased and utilized. If a large amount of transactions require processing a larger amount of resources may be purchased and utilized. In some embodiments cloud resources may be dynamically and or flexibly ordered such that only resources presently needed are ordered and purchased at any given time.

In some embodiments cloud resources may be allocated based at least in part on the volume of transactions received from application catalog . Transaction processing system may be configured to measure transactions received for processing over a period of time e.g. one day three days one week two weeks one month etc. . Based on the number of transactions processed the cloud resources used to implement transaction processing circuit may be adjusted i.e. increased or decreased . For example transaction processing system may determine that 1 500 transactions were processed during a first time period and a first level or capacity of cloud processing resources may be allocated or requested for implementing transaction processing system . Transaction processing system may subsequently determine that 12 000 transactions were processed during a second time period and a second level or capacity of cloud processing resources may be allocated that is greater than the first level. Transaction processing system may again subsequently determine that 5 000 transactions were processed during a third time period and a third level or capacity of cloud resources may be allocated that is greater than the first level and less than the second level.

In some embodiments transaction processing system may be configured to monitor e.g. continuously periodically etc. the number of transactions being processed and adjust the level of capacity of cloud resources being allocated to implementing transaction processing system based on a rate at which transactions are being processed. For example in one embodiment transaction processing system may be configured to request additional cloud resources if the rate at which transactions are requested through application catalog exceeds one or more threshold rates and or request a decrease in cloud resources if the rate falls below one or more threshold rates e.g. instantaneously over a period of time etc. . Utilizing cloud resources may result in substantial cost savings as compared to implementation in a monolithic environment where computing and storage power e.g. server capacity must be designed to meet the greatest anticipated needs as opposed to only the actual needs at any point in time.

In some embodiments a transaction processing circuit e.g. transaction processing circuit and or and a payment system e.g. payment system may be separate systems. For example each system may be operated by different corporate entities e.g. the transaction processing circuit may be operated by Palm and the payment system may be operated by a non Palm entity . In some embodiments the transaction processing circuit and the payment system may operate on separate computing systems and or computing networks that may be geographically remote e.g. five miles apart ten miles apart 50 miles apart 100 miles apart etc. from one another. In some embodiments the transaction processing circuit may be configured to communicate with the payment system over at least one network e.g. a wide area network or WAN such as the Internet or over at least two networks e.g. one local area network or LAN and one WAN . In some embodiments the transaction processing circuit may be implemented using a shared scalable computing resource such as a cloud computing environment and the payment system may be implemented using a non cloud computing resource such as a fixed or static computing resource e.g. a server system .

Referring now to a process for processing transactions is provided according to an exemplary embodiment. In some embodiments process may be executed utilizing various components of systems such as systems and or . Data relating to one or more transactions may be received at a transaction processing circuit operation . The data may be used to apply one or more business rules to each transaction or group of transactions operation . The transaction processing circuit may also be configured to generate one or more summaries based on the received data and or the application of the one or more business rules operation . The summaries may include a revenue summary and or a vendor payment summary. The summaries may be transmitted to a payment system configured to track revenue generated in connection with the transactions operation . The payment system may additionally or alternatively be configured to distribute revenue to vendors e.g. developers and or receive payments e.g. membership fees from vendors.

Referring now to a process for processing transactions is provided according to an exemplary embodiment. In some embodiments process may be executed utilizing various components of systems such as systems and or . Purchase data relating to one or more transactions e.g. for the purchase of software applications may be received from an application catalog at a transaction processing circuit operation . Payment data relating to the transactions may be received from a payment provider at the transaction processing circuit operation .

Transaction processing circuit may be configured to process the purchase data and payment data received from the application catalog and payment provider respectively to confirm that the purchase data is consistent with the payment data e.g. such that payment has been successfully received for the purchased applications operation . Processing the data may include comparing the purchase data and payment data to determine if the received payment reflected in the payment data for each transaction matches the expected payment reflected in the purchase data. For example if the purchase data reflects that a particular transaction was for five dollars the transaction processing circuit may review the payment data to confirm that the payment received for that transaction was five dollars.

The transaction processing circuit may be configured to generate summaries relating to the transactions. The transaction processing circuit may be configured to generate a revenue summary operation . The revenue summary may include data related to revenue generated in connection with the transactions. In some embodiments each revenue summary may be related to a particular time period. In some embodiments the revenue summary may include data relating to what portion of the revenue for the time period is to be distributed to developers of the software applications on which the transactions were based.

The transaction processing circuit may be configured to generate a vendor payment summary operation . The vendor payment summary may include data relating to payments e.g. monetary value portion of revenue etc. that should be made to one or more developers in connection with transactions for applications they have developed. In some embodiments each vendor payment summary may be related to a particular time period.

The revenue summary and or vendor payment summary may be transmitted to a payment system operation . The payment system may post revenue and or make payments to developers based on the revenue and or vendor payment summaries.

Referring to a mobile device is shown. In some embodiments mobile device may be configured to access an application store to purchase software applications and the application store may utilize systems and or methods similar to those described above to process the transactions. The teachings herein can be applied to device or to other electronic devices e.g. a desktop computer such as mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or handheld computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA smartphone mobile telephone personal navigation device handheld digital camera handheld relative navigation device etc. According to one embodiment device may be a smartphone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having PDA functionality. PDA functionality can comprise one or more personal information management applications e.g. including personal data applications such as email calendar contacts etc. database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording Global Positioning System GPS functionality etc. Device may be configured to synchronize e.g. two way file synchronization personal information from these applications with a computer e.g. a desktop laptop server etc. . Device may be further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download such as from an application store operable on remote server computers Secure Digital card etc.

As shown in device includes a housing and a front and a back . Device further comprises a display and a user input device e.g. a QWERTY keyboard buttons touch screen microphone for speech recognition engine etc. . Display may comprise a touch screen display in order to provide user input to a processor to control functions such as to select options displayed on display enter text input to device or enter other types of input. Display also provides images e.g. a geographic map application icons a web browser etc. that are displayed and may be viewed by users of device . User input device can provide similar inputs as those of touch screen display . An input button may be provided on front and may be configured to perform pre programmed functions. Device can further comprise a speaker a stylus not shown to assist the user in making selections on display a camera a camera flash a microphone and an earpiece . Display may comprise a capacitive touch screen a mutual capacitance touch screen a self capacitance touch screen a resistive touch screen a touch screen using cameras and light such as a surface multi touch screen proximity sensors or other touch screen technologies. Display may be configured to receive inputs from finger touches at a plurality of locations on display at the same time. Display may be configured to receive a finger swipe or other directional input which may be interpreted by a processing circuit to control certain functions distinct from a single touch input. Further a gesture area may be provided adjacent e.g. below above to a side etc. or be incorporated into display to receive various gestures as inputs including taps swipes drags flips pinches and so on including multiple touch and multiple swipe commands e.g. to zoom and or pan an image such as a geographic map . One or more indicator areas e.g. lights etc. may be provided to indicate that a gesture has been received from a user.

According to an exemplary embodiment housing is configured to hold a screen such as display in a fixed or movable e.g. slidable rotatable hinged etc. relationship above a user input device such as user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane or in a different plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and the user input device e.g. a plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment.

Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a hand of a user comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. The various input devices and other components of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front surface shown in the rear surface shown in the side surfaces as shown in etc. . Furthermore various components such as a keyboard etc. may be retractable to slide in and out from a portion of device to be revealed along any of the sides of device etc. For example as shown in front may be slidably adjustable relative to back to reveal input device such that in a retracted configuration see input device is not visible and in an extended configuration see input device is visible.

According to various exemplary embodiments housing may be any size shape and have a variety of length width thickness and volume dimensions. For example width may be no more than about 200 millimeters mm 100 mm 85 mm or 65 mm or alternatively at least about 30 mm 50 mm or 55 mm. Length may be no more than about 200 mm 150 mm 135 mm or 125 mm or alternatively at least about 70 mm or 100 mm. Thickness may be no more than about 150 mm 50 mm 25 mm or 15 mm or alternatively at least about 10 mm 15 mm or 50 mm. The volume of housing may be no more than about 2500 cubic centimeters cc or 1500 cc or alternatively at least about 1000 cc or 600 cc.

Device may provide voice communications or telephony functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Long Term Evolution LTE systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Device may be configured to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles etc.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit having a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment host processor is an OMAP2 such as an OMAP2431 processor manufactured by Texas Instruments Inc.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of the computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI a username password protection program and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm webOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Windows Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS etc.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor and a memory coupled to the radio processor . In various embodiments memories may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor and or radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a QWERTY and or alphanumeric key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or base band processor. The radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital base band operations for device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

Device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS CDMA and or LTE system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers configured to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1 RTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more absolute position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques etc. A Wi Fi Positioning System may be used as another type of absolute positioning system such as one provided by Skyhook Wireless Inc. Boston Mass. For example an absolute positioning circuit may be configured to collect Wi Fi identifier data from a plurality of nearby Wi Fi access points e.g. any wireless transceiver communicating according to an IEEE 802.11x protocol and retrieve a latitude longitude or other absolute position from a database by looking up the Wi Fi access point identifiers received in the position of interest. In another example a Wi Fi access point may be configured to transmit its absolute position and device may be configured to determine that its absolute position is the position of the Wi Fi access point within a predetermined error. Another type of absolute positioning system having less accuracy than GPS is a Cell ID triangulation positioning system such as one provided by Telmap Ltd. London United Kingdom.

Referring again to processing circuit may comprise a relative position determination circuit shown in exemplary form as a part of the radio processor though circuit may be part of host processor or any other portion of processing circuit . The relative position determination circuit may comprise circuitry and or software configured to provide relative position data for device relative to an object.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support absolute and or relative position determination such as location determination circuit . For example the transceiver module and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate location requests e.g. requests for position fixes and location responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor also may set request response parameters to request and return various types of position information. Examples of request response parameters may include current location latitude longitude altitude heading vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix method level of accuracy time offset position uncertainty device orientation client initialization and registration and so forth.

Various embodiments disclosed herein may include or be implemented in connection with computer readable media configured to store machine executable instructions therein and or one or more modules circuits units engines systems nodes or other elements that may comprise analog and or digital circuit components e.g. a processor or other processing circuit configured or arranged to perform one or more of the steps recited herein. By way of example computer readable media may include non transitory media such as RAM ROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage flash memory or any other medium capable of storing and providing access to desired machine executable instructions. The use of circuit module or engine system node herein is meant to broadly encompass any one or more of discrete circuit components analog and or digital circuit components integrated circuits solid state devices and or programmed portions of any of the foregoing including microprocessors microcontrollers ASICs programmable logic or other electronic devices.

While the detailed drawings specific examples and particular formulations given describe exemplary embodiments they serve the purpose of illustration only. The hardware and software configurations shown and described may differ depending on the chosen performance characteristics and physical characteristics of the computing devices. The systems shown and described are not limited to the precise details and conditions disclosed. Furthermore other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as expressed in the appended claims.

